RTXC(Real Time Express Credit) is a first of its kind, fully digitized loan journey designed for customers maintaining Salary Package account with the Bank
Loans up to ₹50 lakhs can be availed instantly at your convenience on 24*7 basis
The product is available on YONO under 2 modes:
Digital Document Execution (DDE): Real-time sanction, digital documentation and real-time disbursement at DDE enabled States/ UTs.
Non-DDE: Real-time sanction on YONO, document execution and single click disbursement at selected branch
Features :
Aadhaar OTP based e-sign of customer.
Step-by-Step Guided e-mail and SMS Communication System.
Digitization of entire loan documentation processes viz. loan application, loan agreement, stamping and signature at 21 DDE enabled States & 5 DDE enabled Union Territories at present.
Instant loan disbursement.
Digital Document Execution (DDE) facility is presently live at 21 States viz. i. Andhra Pradesh, ii. Assam, iii. Chhattisgarh, iv. Goa, v. Gujarat, vi. Himachal Pradesh, vii. Jharkhand, viii. Karnataka, ix. Kerala, x. Maharashtra, xi. Manipur, xii. Meghalaya, xiii. Odisha, xiv. Punjab, xv. Rajasthan, xvi. Tamil Nadu, xvii. Telangana, xviii. Tripura, xix. Uttarakhand, xx. Uttar Pradesh, xxi. West Bengal and 5 Union Territories viz. i. Andaman & Nicobar, ii. Delhi, iii. Jammu & Kashmir, iv. Ladakh, v. Puducherry.

Eligibility :
Salaried customers maintaining Salary Package account with the Bank
Minimum Net Monthly Income of ₹20,000/- for Government/ Defence employees and ₹25,000/- for Corporate employees
Loan Amount:
Minimum Loan amount: Rs. 1 lakh
Maximum Loan Amount: ₹ 50 lakh, subject to EMI/NMI Ratio up to 65% & 30-times NMI, whichever is lower.
Terms And Conditions:
Loan Tenure: 6 months – 84 months
Processing fee: Up to 1.50% of the Loan Amount (subject to minimum ₹1000/- & maximum ₹15000/-), plus GST
Penal Charges: In the event of default in payment of any instalment or any irregularity in the loan account, penal charges at following rate will be applicable:
Irregularity upto 60 Days: 2.40% per annum on the irregular portion for the period of irregularity.
Continuous irregular for a period beyond 60 days: 5% per annum on the irregular portion for the period of irregularity
The Loan will be repayable by way of EMIs. Standing Instruction (SI) for EMI payment will be automatically set up on Salary Package Account of the customer.
Loan Account will be closed/ pre-closed at the Home Branch/through app/portal by customer, after recovering residual dues from the Customer.

1. What is Real Time Xpress Credit (RTXC)
RTXC (Real Time Xpress Credit) is a variant of Xpress credit loan specially designed for meeting your urgent financial requirements. It is a hassle-free loan made available instantly through Digital Document Execution (DDE) Process & Non- DDE process flow.
2. For what purposes can I avail this loan?
It is a general-purpose loan/ personal loan for meeting any legitimate personal needs other than speculative activities.
3. Who is eligible for Real Time Xpress Credit (RTXC)
All Existing to Bank, single and joint salary account (with mode of operation EorS/ForS) holders having Government, Defence, CSP (Rhodium, platinum & diamond) Salary package Accounts with a certain minimum stipulated salary
4. How do I know that I am eligible for RTXC
RTXC is real time loan sanctioned digitally by the system. You will have to apply for Xpress credit loan through YONO App. Login-Loans-Personal Loan
5. What is the minimum & maximum amount offered under RTXC and RTXC-Elite
The minimum & maximum amount offered under RTXC will be as under:
• Minimum Loan amount: Rs 1.00 Lakhs
• Maximum Loan amount: Rs 35.00 Lakhs
6. What if I avail RTXC and still I need a higher amount of loan by way of either Xpress Credit/ Pension Loan for which I am eligible for
The maximum loan eligibility under RTXC will be same as available in Branch Channel.
7. When I am eligible for two products, how can I avail both the products in YONO
Under RTXC, you will be shown the Term loan offer of only one product. Further, you can avail upto two XC/ PAXC/ Insta credit top up loans at any point of time.
8. What is the repayment period
The repayment period ranging from 6 months to 84 Months is available/ displayed based on the other eligibility parameters like EMI/NMI ratio etc.
9. What is the interest rate
Interest rates are linked to 2-year MCLR and fixed for entire loan tenure with no reset.
10. Is there any Processing fee
Yes, depending upon the customer eligibility processing fee may range from Nil to 1.50% of the loan amount plus GST (maximum Rs 15,000 + GST). Further, these charges are reviewed and subjected to change by the Bank in future
11. Are there any other charges for availing this loan
Apart from processing fees, there is no other charges at present. However, the customer will be required to pay stamp duty fees for the execution of loan agreement. For customers, eligible for DDE, DDE charges may be applicable and is subjected to change at any pointy of time
12. Do I need to provide any documents
No documents are required to be provided if you have been offered RTXC with DDE facility as your entire journey will be on the digital platform. In case of RTXC with documentation at Branch, you will have to visit the Branch as per the checklist of documents provided in the sanction letter
13. Do I have to visit the Branch for applying the loan
For your convenience, this loan variant is made available to you through YONO App
14. Do I need to visit any Branch for Loan agreement
In case you have been offered DDE, there is no need to visit any Branch as the entire process including Documentation will be end-to-end. In case of RTXC Non-DDE, you will be required to visit the Branch for documentation and disbursement
15. When will I get the loan amount deposited in my account
The loan amount will be deposited in your Savings Account within a few seconds of your DDE Process completion. In case of RTXC Non-DDE, the loan amount will be credited after completion of documentation at the Branch.
16. How will I repay the loan
An automatic standing Instruction will be set up on a day selected by you, for transfer of EMI from your Savings Account to Loan Account.
17. Will my loan account be closed automatically after payment of all EMIs
Yes, the loan will be closed automatically closed on last EMI payment
18. Can I pre-close my account
Yes. The loan account can be pre-closed through YONO
19. Is there any pre-payment penalty
During Cooling off/ look-up period: No prepayment charges to be applied for closure of loan during Cooling off/ look-up period i.e. within 3 days from the date of sanction. After cooling period, depending upon product feature. The product feature can be seen in Key Fact Statement.