Purpose:
To meet any kind of credit requirements including purchase of shop
Features
Target Group :
All Micro Enterprises, SSI units, SBF, Retail Traders, village industries, tiny units, professionals, self-employed, MSME Units
Facilities Available :
Cash Credit and / or Term Loan
Quantum of Loan :
Max. upto Rs 10.00 Lkahs
Pricing :
Attractive Interest rates based on rating of the Borrower/ External Rating or as per Scheme Specific Rating (if applicable) or as per extant guidelines of the Bank.
EBR (Linked to Repo Rate and Currently EBR is Repo Rate + 2.65%) linked (for MSMEs) & 6 months MCLR linked (for Non-MSMEs)
Borrower’s Margin / Contribution :
Up to Rs 50000 – NIL
Rs 50001 to Rs 10 lacs ---10%
Repayment Period:
Cash Credit:
Repayable on demand. Validity: 3 years subject to Annual Review.
Term Loan:
< Rs. 5 lakhs: Max. 5 years including moratorium period up to 6 months. Annual review to be done.
Rs. 5 lakhs & above: Max. 7 years including maximum moratorium period of upto 12 months. Annual review to be done. Interest to be serviced during moratorium.
Processing Fee/ Upfront Fee
:
Processing Fee
Upfront fee
Unified Processing Fee:
Rs 1000/- + GST
Unified Upfront Fee:
NIL
Other Charges
: As per Bank Guidelines which will be appraised to the borrower before sanction of loans
Special Feature
Nil Collateral Security
All loans to be covered under CGFMU as under Mudra Scheme. However, the accounts which are already opened, and fee is being paid under CGTMSE will be continued.
Assessment of Limit:
Working Capital: 20% of turnover of the last 12 months through the account
Term Loan: Total Project Cost less stipulated margin
For Self - Employed & Professionals: 50% of Gross Annual Income as declared in their income tax return
Eligibility Criteria
Customers of the following segments with a satisfactory track record for the last 2 years:
Small Industrial Unit, Micro Enterprises, Small Retail Traders, MSME Units, Professionals & Self-Employed persons, Small Business Enterprises, Transport Operators (SRTO), Units who do not enjoy credit limit with us/ other banks at present with excellent performance and credentials may be considered.
Scoring Model:
Units which obtain a minimum of 60% score as per Scoring Model, would qualify under the product.
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Friday, 09-02-2024