FAQ - Pension Related
1. Can any pensioner draw his/her pension from SBI?
Ans:  Yes, a pensioner can draw his/her pension from a SBI
Branch if he/she is a Central/State Govt. Pensioner or Autonomous
Body, which has arrangement for pension payment with our Bank.
2. Can the pensioner draw his/ her pension through a Bank Branch ?
Ans:  Yes. Even the Government employees earlier drawing their
pension from a Treasury or from a Post Office will have the option to
draw their pension from the authorized Bank’s Branches.
3. Where will the Pensioner open his/her pension account?
Ans:  The pensioner will open his/her SB/CA account at the
Branch of his/ her choice/ convenience (Home Branch) as hitherto.
4. What should a retiring person do to draw his/her pension from a SBI
Branch ?
Ans:  The retiring person should open an account with a SBI
Branch and advise this Account number and Branch to the concerned
Pension Sanctioning Authority for release of his/her pension.
5. Is it necessary for the pensioner to open a separate pension account
for the purpose of crediting his/ her pension in authorized bank ?
Ans:  The pensioner is not required to open a separate pension
account. The pension can be credited to his or her existing
savings/current account maintained with any Branch of the Bank
selected by the pensioner.
6. What should a retiring person, who already draws his/ her pension from
a Branch of another Bank, do to draw pension from a SBI Branch ?
Ans:  The pensioner should open an account with a convenient
SBI Branch and request his/ her existing banker to send the pension
papers to the concerned Govt. authorities for onward submission to
concerned CPPC of SBI for pension processing.
7. Can a pensioner transfer his/ her pension account from one Branch to
another Branch of the same Bank or to the Branch of another Bank?
Ans:(a) Pensioner can transfer his/ her pension account from
one Branch to another Branch of the same Bank within the same centre
or at a different centre;(b) He/She can also transfer his/ her
account from one authorized Bank to another authorized Bank at
different centre.
8. Can a pensioner open a Joint Account with his/ her spouse ?
Ans:  Yes. All Central Government Pensioners and those State
Governments which have accepted such arrangement can open Joint
Account with their spouses.
9. Whether Joint Account of the pensioner with spouse can be operated
either by ''Former or Survivor" or "Either or Survivor".
Ans:  The Joint Account of the pensioner with spouse can be
operated either by ‘‘Former or Survivor" or “Either or Survivor".
10. Whether either or survivor pension account can be continued after
death of pensioner
Ans:Yes, either or survivor pension account will be continued
after death of pensioner when the spouse is the survivor and having a
joint account with the pensioner and in whose favour an authorisation
for payment of family pension exists in the Pension Payment Order
(PPO).
11. Can Bank record PPO number in the passbook of pensioners/family
pensioners
Ans:  Yes, the functionality of printing PPO No. in the
Passbook by the system itself along with other details on the 1st page
is deployed.
12. What is the procedure to be followed by the Bank Branch if the
pensioner is handicapped /incapacitated and is not in a position to be
present at the paying branch ?
Ans:  If the pensioner is physically handicapped/incapacitated
and unable to present at the branch, the requirement of personal
appearance is waived. In such cases the Bank official visits the
pensioner’s residence/hospital for the purpose of identification and
obtaining specimen signature or thumb/toe impression.
13. Can old, sick physically handicapped pensioner who is unable to sign,
open pension account or withdraw his/ her pension from the pension
account?
Ans:  A pensioner, who is old, sick or lost both his / her
hands and, therefore, cannot sign, can put any mark or thumb/ toe
impression on the form for opening of pension account. While
withdrawing the pension amount he/ she can put thumb/toe impression on
the cheque/withdrawal form and it should be identified by two
independent witnesses known to the Bank one of whom should be a Bank
official.
14. Can a pensioner withdraw pension from his/ her account when he/ she is
not able to sign or put thumb/toe impression or unable to be present in
the bank?
Ans:  In such cases, a pensioner can put any mark or impression
on the cheque/ withdrawal form and may indicate to the bank as to who
would withdraw pension amount from the Bank on the basis of cheque /
withdrawal form. Such a person should be identified by two independent
witnesses. The person who is actually drawing the money from the Bank
should be asked to furnish his/ her specimen signature to the Bank.
15. Can a pensioner submit DLC/Physical Life Certificate from own
residence ?
Ans:  Yes, as under. a) - Pensioner can submit DLC from his
residence, if the pensioner is having a PC/Laptop with internet
connection and Registered Biometric Device.b) - Under the Door
Step Banking (DSB) for non-financial transactions, Bank has provided
the facility for pick-up of Life Certificate from the residence of
pensioners having age of more than 70 years and differently abled or
infirm persons (having medically certified chronic illness or
disability) including those who are visually impaired.
16. Can a pensioner be allowed to operate his/ her account by the holder
of Power of Attorney ?
Ans:  The account is not allowed to be operated by a holder of
Power of Attorney. However, the cheque book/ATM/INB facility and
acceptance of standing instructions for transfer of funds from the
account is permissible.
17. Which Office/Branch will the pensioner approach to complete
formalities connected with commencement of his/her pension ?
Ans:  The pensioner will continue to complete all the pension
related formalities such as submission of mandatory undertakings for
recovery of overpayment etc. at his/her Home Branch and if requested
for the grant of FMA an undertaking on prescribed proforma every year,
in case of Central Civil Pension.
18. When is the pension credited to the pensioner's account by the paying
Branch ?
Ans:  The disbursement of pension by paying branch is spread
over the last four working days of the month depending on the
convenience of the pension paying Branch except for the month of March
when the pension is credited on or after the first working day of
April
19. When does the family pension commence ?
Ans:  The family pension commences after the death of the
pensioner. The family pension is payable to the person indicated in
the PPO on receipt of a death certificate and application from the
family member of pensioner.
20. In case of Family Pension, which office should the dependents
approach?
Ans: The Home Branch through which pension had been paid to the
pensioner will be the contact point in the case of Family Pension
also.The family member of pensioner, as indicated in the PPO,
has to visit the Branch from where the pension was being released
every month, with the following documents:
The family member of pensioner, as indicated in the PPO, has to visit
the Branch from where the pension was being released every month, with
the following documents:
Death Certificate of the pensioner (original plus one photocopy) the
original will be returned after verification by the bank.
Non remarriage certificate and non-employment certificate to be
submitted. Simple declaration to be attested by the Bank official or
any gazetted officer. The Performa will be available at the Branch.
Life Certificate of the family pensioner along with other mandatory
Certificates and an Undertaking if FMA granted to Central Civil
Pensioner on prescribed proforma (These Certificates and Undertaking
are also mandatory to submit to Bank once every year in the month of
November).
Once all the documents are processed, the family pension will start
from next month and the same will be paid along with arrears if any.
21. What is the Eligibility & Procedure for granting of Fixed Medical
Allowance (FMA)?
Ans: At the time of retirement, pensioners have the option to
select Fixed Medical Allowance or Central Government Health Scheme
(CGHS) Treatment Facility.
If a Central Govt. Pensioner is not a member of CGHS and opted for
Fixed Medical Allowance, the Fixed Medical Allowance may be granted to
the pensioner and will be paid on the monthly basis. In this regard
pensioner has to submit an undertaking on prescribed proforma every
year along with other necessary Certificates
However if the pensioner wants to change the option or to know the
other provisions/ details regarding CGHS etc., may contact his/her
Department.
22. When should life certificate be submitted and what is the time limit
for submission of Life Certificate by the Senior Pensioners aged 80 years
and above?
Ans:  As per Govt. instructions, life certificate, duly
witnessed, should be submitted to the any Pension Paying Branch in the
month of November every year.
In case of Senior Pensioners of the age of 80 years and above,
Government has allowed to submit their Life Certificate w.e.f. 01
October every year instead of November which would be valid till 30th
November of the subsequent year.
The Life Certificate form will be available at our branches or can be
downloaded from onlinesbi, or you can also download the form from the
Government website
cpao.nic.in.
23. Where should the pensioner submit his/her life certificate ?
Ans:  The pensioner can submit life certificate at
any branch of the Bank either in person or through his/her authorized
representative. The receiving official will acknowledge receipt of the
Life Certificate.
24. What will happen if life certificate is not submitted in the month of
November ?
Ans:  If life certificate is not submitted in the month of
November of a year, payment of pension for November and onwards is not
be paid to the pensioner, in accordance with the instructions of the
Govt.
25. If life certificate is submitted in a subsequent month, when will
pension for November and onwards get paid ?
Ans:   Once Life Certificate is keyed in the Pension
System, pension will get paid alongwith arrears on the next pension
processing cycle - normally it is weekly basis.
26. What is the procedure for the pension payment to NRI pensioner?
Ans:  Pensioner is required to submit the following
information:
Aadhaar No.
Present Address:
Telephone Number (if any)
Mobile Number (if any) this is required for sending pension slip and
other useful message through SMS.
PAN (Income Tax) this is required for the proper calculation of TDS.
Date of birth of the spouse (with proof) this is a requirement of
Government.
e-Mail address, for sending pension related information i.e. monthly
pension slip etc.
27. What is Digital Life Certificate (JEEVAN PRAMAAN) and its benefits ?
Ans:
This is Aadhar based digital verification version of life Certificate.
Government of India, on 10th November, 2014 has launched “Jeevan
Pramaan” an “Aadhaar based Digital Life Certificate” for pensioners.
This initiative is in addition to the existing system of physical
submission of Life Certificate by pensioners at the pension disbursing
branches or any branch of the Bank at his convenience.
Pensioner can visit a nearby CSC centre, Bank Branch or any Government
Office whose details are provided under “locate centre” on
jeevanpramaan.gov.in and bio-metrically authenticate his / her life
certificate in real time by giving his/her Aadhaar number and other
pension details related to their pension Bank account.
After successful submission of digital life certificate, pensioner
will get a SMS on his/her mobile giving the transaction ID. Pensioner
will be able to download computer generated life certificate from
jeevanpramaan.gov.in using this transaction ID for their records.
Physical Life Certificate will continue to be accepted from pensioners
if preferred by him / her.
Since the entire process is primarily Aadhaar based, Digital Life
Certificate submitted by the pensioner can be authenticated only when
pensioners’ accounts are seeded with their Aadhaar Number.
28. Can a pensioner be exempted from personal appearance at the Pension
Paying Branch for submission of Life Certificate?
Ans:
Yes, Pensioner, who produces a Life Certificate in the prescribed form
in Annexure-XVII signed by any person specified hereunder, is exempted
from personal appearance.
A person exercising the powers of a Magistrate under the Criminal
Procedure code;
A Registrar or Sub-Registrar appointed under Indian Registration
Act;
A Gazette Government servant;
A Police Officer not below the rank of Sub-Inspector in-charge of a
Police Station;
A Postmaster, a departmental Sub-Postmater or an inspector of Post
Offices;
A Class-I Officer of the Reserve Bank of India, an officer
(including Grade II Officer) of the State Bank of India or of its
subsidiary
A Pensioned Officer who, before retirement, exercised the powers of
a magistrate
A Justice of Peace
A Block Development Officer, Munsif, Tehsildar or Naib Tehsildar
A Head of Village Panchayat, Gram Panchayat, Gaon Panchayat or an
Executive Committee of a Village
A Member of Parliament, of State legislatures or of legislatures of
Union Territory Governments/Administrations
Treasury Officer.
In the case of a pensioner drawing his pension through a Public Sector
Bank the Life Certificate may be signed by an officer of a Public
Sector Bank.
In the case of pensioner residing abroad and drawing his pension
through any other Bank included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve
Bank of India, Act, 1934, the Life Certificate may be signed by an
officer of the Bank.
Further, a pensioner not resident in India in respect of whom his duly
authorized agent produces a Life Certificate signed by a Magistrate, a
Notary, a Banker or a Diplomatic Representative of India is exempted
from special appearance.
29. What is the procedure for the pension payment to NRI pensioner ?
Ans: NRI pensioner needs to submit a declaration at the pension paying
branch that he/she is an NRI. On the basis of declaration the existing
account will be converted into a Non Resident - Ordinary (NRO) account
( a type of account for NRI) and NRI pensioner need to send a life
certificate every year in the month of November to his/her pension
paying branch.
Credit of pension to NRE Savings bank / Current account
RBI permits NRIs/PIOs to credit their current income like pension paid
by any authority in India to their NRE Saving Bank/ Current Account,
provided the Authorised Dealer is satisfied that the credit represents
current income and Income-Tax has been deducted / paid / provided on
these incomes, as the case may be.
NRI / PIO customers interested in receiving their monthly pension in
NRE Savings Bank / Current Account, have to submit ‘NRE Tax
Undertaking’ (for the format please contact to the pension paying
Branch) to initiate the process. The undertaking has to be submitted
in the month of November every year along with ‘Life Certificate’
30. Pensioner who is residing abroad, how can submit the Life Certificate?
Ans: In the case of a pensioner residing abroad, the following methods
are available for submission of life certificates (as per DoPPW OM dated 20.02.2020).
If he/she is drawing pension through any bank included in the Second
Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, the life
certificate may be signed by an officer of the Bank at the foreign
offices.
An authorized official of the Embassy of India/ High Commission of
India/Indian Consulates may issue the life certificate.
In case the pensioner is unable to visit the Embassy/ Consulate,
he/she may submit requisite documents by post to the
Embassy/Consulate, including Doctor’s Certificate showing the
pensioner’s inability to present himself/herself in person. Embassy
of India/ High Commission/ Indian Consulates may also assist
pensioners/family pensioners in submission of the Life
Certificate.
A Pensioner, not resident in India, in respect of whom a duly
authorized agent produces a Life Certificate, signed by a magistrate
or an officer of an Indian authorized Bank or Diplomatic
Representative of India, is exempted from special appearance.
31. Who is the pension sanctioning authority ?
Ans:  The Ministry/Department/Office where the Government
servant last served is the pension sanctioning authority. The pension
fixation is made by such authority for the first time and thereafter
the re-fixation of pay, if any, is done by the pension paying Bank
based on the instructions from the Central/ State Government
authorities.
32. Who sends the Pension Payment Orders (PPOs) to the authorized Bank ?
Ans:  The concerned pension paying/sanctioning authorities of
the Ministries/ Departments/State Governments forward the PPOs to the
Bank where from the pensioner desires to draw his/her pension.
33. When will the payment of pension commence in case of new PPOs?
Ans: The payment of pension, in respect of PPOs received at
Centralized Pension Processing Cell (CPPC) up to one week before last
date of a month, will normally commence from the same month.
34. When will the arrears get paid?
Ans:   Payment of arrears, on account of revision of
pension etc., received at Centralized Pension Processing Cell (CPPC)
of the Bank up to one week before last date of a month, will normally
be made along with monthly pension.
35. How the payment of Dearness Relief at revised rate is to be paid to
the pensioners ?
Ans:  Whenever any additional relief on pension/family pension
is sanctioned by the Government, the same is intimated to the agency
banks for issuing suitable instructions to their pension paying
branches for payment of relief at the revised rates to the pensioners
without any delay. The orders issued by Govt. Departments are also
hosted on their websites and banks have been advised to watch the
latest instructions on the website and act accordingly without waiting
for any further orders from RBI in this regard.
36. Where can a pensioner get information about the changes in the
pension/ Dearness Relief or any pension related issue ?
Ans: The pensioner can visit the Official Website of the
concerned Government Department as also Reserve Bank of India Website
(www.rbi.org.in) to get the
information about pension related issues.
37. Can pensioners get pension slips ?
Ans:   Yes, monthly pension slip is automatically sent to
the pensioner's e-Mail ID if available with the Bank. In other cases
pension slip can be obtained by the pensioner from any pension paying
branch.
38. How to get SMS for the details of monthly pension
Ans:  To get SMS Pensioner has to visit Pension Paying Branch
(Home Branch) with request to upload his/her Mobile number in the
Pension Application Software.
Pensioner can get the details of monthly pension such as Basic
Pension, D.A., Medical Allowance, Other Allowances, Commutation,
Income Tax, Net Pension credited and the date of credit along with
amount of commutation and gratuity paid through SMS from State Bank of
India on regular basis.
39. If the pensioner has a query or requires clarification on the amount
of pension paid, what should he/she do?
Ans:  The pensioner should approach any Pension Paying Branch
for resolution and help. The Branch will attend to it, with on-line
help from the CPPC, if needed.
40. If the pensioner wants details of pension paid during a financial year
or Pension Payment Slip, whom should he/she approach?
Ans: The details for a year would be provided to the Pensioner
by the Pension Paying Branch by obtaining the details from the
centralized database and also available at web portal “Pension Seva.
SBI”.
41. What is the Website available for pensioners ?
Ans:  Pension Seva website for pensioners:
A new website https://www.pensionseva.sbi for Govt. and Autonomous
Bodies pensioners was launched on 31.08.2018 wherein pensioners can
login and view their pension details. For availing this facility,
first the email id of the pensioner should be registered in the
Pension Application. Once e-mail ID is updated to the pension account
in the Pension Application, Pensioner can register in the Pension Seva
website. The process for one time registration is provided under the
“How Do I” tab in the Pension Seva website. The features available to
the pensioner after login are Profile details, Certificate Details,
Transactions Credited, Arrear Calculation Sheet, Pension Slip, Form
16, Investment Details, etc.
42. Has the pensioner got right to retain half portion of the PPO for
record and to get it updated from paying branch whenever there is a change
in the quantum of pension due to revision in basic pension, dearness
relief, etc.?
Ans:  Yes. The pensioner has right to retain half portion of
the PPO for record and whenever there is a revision in the Basic
Pension/DR etc. the pension paying Branch has to call for the
pensioner's half of the PPO and record thereon the changes according
to Government Orders/Notifications and return the same to the
pensioner.
43. What types of pensions are handled by Centralized Pension Processing
Cell (CPPC)?
Ans:  All type of pension to pensioners of Central Govt. and
State Govt. etc., (except SBI/IBI pensions) are handled by CPPC.
Payment of pension in respect of specific autonomous bodies is also
handled, where specifically agreed.
44. What should an Autonomous Body/ Corporate Customer do to avail the
facilities of CPPC from SBI branches, if the Autonomous Body does not have
pension payment arrangement with SBI?
Ans:  The concerned Autonomous Body should approach the nearest
Branch to firm up and finalize the pension payment arrangements.
45. Can the pension paying Bank recover the excess amount credited to the
pensioner’s account?
Ans:  Yes. The pension paying Branch before commencement of
pension obtains an undertaking from the pensioner in the prescribed
form for this purpose and therefore, can recover the excess payment
made to the pensioner's account due to delay in receipt of any
material information or due to any bonafide error. The Bank has also
right to recover the excess amount of pension credited to the deceased
pensioner’s account from his/ her legal heirs/nominees.
46. Whether Income Tax deducted at source (TDS) on Pension
Ans: Yes. As per Income Tax Act, TDS is applicable on pension
to individual male or female & senior citizen except certain
categories of disability pension (i.e. disability element and service
element of a disabled officer of the Indian Armed forces) which are
exempted.
47. Who is responsible for deduction of Income Tax at source from pension
payment?
Ans: The pension paying Bank is responsible for deduction of
Income Tax from pension amount in accordance with the rates prescribed
by the Income Tax authorities from time to time. While deducting such
tax from the pension amount, the paying Bank, on the basis of
declaration submitted by the pensioner, will also allow deductions on
account of relief to the pensioner available under the Income Tax Act.
The paying Branch will also issue a certificate of tax deduction on
the prescribed form to pensioner in the month of April each year.
48. Where should a pensioner submit details of investment for claiming
relief under Income Tax Act?
Ans:  The pensioner should submit the details of investment to
Pension Paying Branch.In this regard, to avoid possibility of
excess deduction of TDS, It is advisable that pensioner should submit
his/her investment & other details related to claiming relief
under Income Tax Act well in advance i.e. at the beginning of
Financial Year. Accordingly the Branch will arrange for deduction of
Income Tax and issue a certificate containing details of Income Tax
deducted from pension by the Pension Paying Branch.
49. Which office will the customer approach for grievance resolution?
Ans: The pensioner’s grievance will be resolved at the Pension
paying Branch. On-line help from CPPC will be available to the branch
(in case of need). The pensioner is not required to approach CPPC
directly.
50. Which authority the pensioner should approach for redressal of his/
her grievances?
Ans: In case pensioner need any clarification regarding their
pension payment, the following options are available:
SMS “UNHAPPY” to 8008202020
Call our dedicated pension helpline- 1800110009
Lodge online grievance on
www.sbi.co.in
Call our Contact Centre on 180042503800 or 1800112211
Lodge a grievance to gm.customer@sbi.co.in or dgm.customer@sbi.co.in
A pensioner can initially approach the Branch Manager of pension
paying Branch and, thereafter, the Head Office of the concerned Bank
for redressal of his/her complaint. They can also approach the Banking
Ombudsman of the concerned State in terms of Banking Ombudsman Scheme
2006 of the Reserve Bank of India (details available at the Bank’s
website
www.rbi.org.in)
This is applicable only in respect of complaints relating to services
rendered by Banks. For other issues the complainant will have to
approach the respective pension paying authority.