FAQ Project Finance
Q. What is Project Financing ?
Project Finance is credit facilities extended by way of Term Loan, ECB/FCTL and NonFund Based facilities viz. Bank Guarantee, Letter of Credit etc. for setting up of an economic venture. The economic venture may be under (1) Infrastructure Sector – as notified by the Govt. of India or (ii) Non-infrastructure Sector like Steel, Cement, Textiles etc. It is the long-term financing of projects based on its projected cash flows.
Q2. What are various infrastructure projects handled by the Bank?
Bank provides financing for setting up of Infrastructure projects as defined by the Department of Economic Affairs - Govt of India vide Harmonized Master List of Infrastructure Sub-Sectors (http://www.infrastructureinindia.gov.in/harmonized_list)
The list includes the following 5 broad categories; which in turn includes various other infrastructure sub-sectors:
1. Transport and Logistics,
2. Energy,
3. Water and Sanitation,
4. Communication and Social and
5. Commercial Infrastructure.
Q3. What are the typical characteristics of Infrastructure Projects?
Largely executed through Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs)
Capital intensive
Long gestation period
Employment intensive
Self-liquidating as repayment of project loan is mostly through Project Cashflows
Assets not easily transferable
Output is non-tradable (the output is produced and sold at the same location)
Vulnerable to regulatory policies
Limited/ non-recourse financing arrangement
Q4. What are the features of limited recourse/ non-recourse financing?
A loan in which the lender’s claim on assets is limited to the assets generated from the loan, in case of a default, is called limited/ non-recourse financing.
Limited recourse/ non-recourse financing arrangement is often used in financing of long-term projects.
As the name suggests, lenders have limited/ no-recourse to the Sponsors in case of default by the SPV/ delay in project implementation
Lenders have to rely on the cash flows generated by the project for repayment of loans and for security.
Ring-fencing of Cash Flows of the Project is an important aspect.
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 28-08-2024