MUDRA scheme – To help MSMEs grow
Purpose :
MUDRA, which stands for Micro Units Development & Refinance Agency Ltd., is a financial institution set up by Government of India for development and refinancing of micro units enterprises.
Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) is a scheme set up by the Government of India (GoI) through MUDRA (a subsidiary of SIDBI), focusing on extending financial support to the small business sector and has a variety of sub-schemes designed for specific business needs.
Helps in facilitating micro credit up to Rs. 10 lakh to small business owners. MUDRA supports Financial Intermediaries to extend loans to the non-corporate, non-farm sector income generating activities of micro and small entities with credit needs up to Rs. 10 lakhs).
Features
The interventions have been named 'SHISHU', 'KISHOR' and 'TARUN' to signify the stage of growth / development and funding needs of the beneficiary micro unit / entrepreneur.
SHISHU ( Covering loans upto INR 50,000 )
This stage caters to entrepreneurs who are either in their primitive/early stage or require lesser funds in order to get their businesses started.
The interest rates range from 1% to 12%
KISHOR ( Covering loans up to INR 5,00,000 )
This section of entrepreneurs would belong to either those who have already started their business and want additional funds to mobilize and sustain their business
This loan is also for small entrepreneurs who require larger sum of money than what is covered under SHISHU
The interest rates range from 8% to 12%
TARUN ( Covering loans up to INR 10,00,000)
If an entrepreneur meets the required eligibility conditions, he/she could apply loan for upto Rs.10 lakhs. This would be the highest level of amount that an entrepreneur could apply for a startup loan in order to finance expansion, bigger changes in the business
The interest rates range from 11% to 20%
Eligibility
The borrowers should be an Indian citizen.
The loan requirement should not range more than Rs. 10 lakhs.
The enterprises generating income from farming activities, cannot apply for MUDRA loan.
Small enterprises in rural, as well as urban areas, can apply for Pradhan Mantri Mudra Loan
Eligibility criterion
The business should be either one of the following :
Small manufacturing enterprise
Shopkeepers
Fruit and Vegetable vendors
Artisans
'Activities allied to agriculture', e.g. pisciculture, bee keeping, poultry, livestock, rearing, grading, sorting, aggregation agro industries, diary, fishery, agriclinics and agribusiness centres, food & agro-processing, etc. (excluding crop loans, land improvement such as canal, irrigation and wells).
Application process
The borrowers can also apply for Mudra Loan online on “Udyamimitra” Portal (www.udyamimitra.in) by registering yourself and their application shall be viewed by many lenders for credit support.
The loans under MUDRA scheme can be availed only through banks and lending institutions which include :
Public Sector Banks
Private Sector Banks
State operated cooperative banks
Rural banks from regional sector
Institutions offering micro finance
Financial companies other than banks
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 11-11-2020