National Pension System (NPS) is a voluntary defined contribution retirement savings scheme.
NPS account opening
Embark on a secure and tax-efficient journey towards your retirement savings with the National Pension System (NPS).
Features:
Exclusive tax benefits for investments up to Rs. 50,000/- under section 80CCD(1B)
The scheme is regulated by the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) and undergoes regular monitoring and performance review.
NPS offers a flexible range of investment into 2 accounts:
Tier I (pension account) with 2 options (Active choice and Auto choice) and
Tier II (investment account) with 2 options (Active choice and Auto choice).
In active choice, the allocation of funds is as selected by the subscriber.
In auto choice, subscribers are completely assisted in asset allocation decisions.
Eligibility:
Any resident citizen of India aged between 18 and 70 years at the time of application
Subscriber should comply with the prescribed Know Your Customer (KYC) norms.
Possession of a valid PAN card is mandatory for account opening.
How to apply?
Log in to your YONO SBI app.
Navigate to the "Investments" section.
Under "NPS Account Opening" heading, tap on "Open a/c all citizens"
Follow the on-screen instructions to fill in your details and complete the KYC process.
Choose your preferred Tier I and/or Tier II account and investment option.
Make the initial contribution online.
NPS Contribution
Continue to grow your investment conveniently and seamlessly through regular contributions to your NPS account
Features:
Easily contribute to your Tier I and Tier II accounts directly through the YONO SBI mobile application
Link your NPS account to YONO SBI app and set up, modify, or delete Standing Instructions (SI) for regular contributions
Contribution Amount: Tier 1: Minimum ₹500 plus GST Tier 2: Minimum ₹250 plus GST
You can contribute to your Tier I and/or Tier II account(s) as long as the account is active
How to use?
Log in to your YONO SBI app.
Navigate to the "Investments" section
Under "NPS Account Opening" heading, tap on "NPS Contribution"
Follow the on-screen instructions to fill in your details and complete the contribution process.
Download YONO SBI
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 16-07-2025