Purpose
To meet the cost of purchase of Tractor and its accessories (Including insurance and registration charges)
Features
Loan Amount:
Minimum: Rs. 2,00,000/- and Maximum: Rs.25,00,000/-
Margin:
25% of cost of tractor and accessories. (including insurance and registration charges)
Tenure
: Upto 5 years
Repayment:
The loan is repayable as Principle Equated Distribution with Interest in half yearly Instalments.
The loan amount shall be paid directly to the authorized dealer / supplier of tractor.
Margin amount to be paid before or with the disbursement.
Security
:
Primary
: Hypothecation of Tractor and accessories purchased from Bank Finance.
Collateral
: Collateral security is Optional for availing a tractor loan
In case collateral is provided, then the following securities can be taken as collateral: Any approved liquid security (Sovereign Gold Bonds, National Savings Certificate, shares of listed companies, units of approved mutual funds scheme by our bank and our bank’s Fixed Deposits) or Equitable/ Registered mortgage of land belonging to the applicant.
Eligibility
Individual farmers.
Applicant should hold a minimum agriculture land holding of two acres.
Minimum CRIF Highmark Score above 600 or CIBIL score above 650 or No credit history.
Documents Required
Application form with photo of the borrowers.
Tractor Quotation/ Proforma Invoice.
Proof of agricultural land/ cultivation.
Any other document as per sanction.
Interest Rate
: Rate of interest is linked to the value of the collateral provided as per the below slab:
Collateral Value
Interest Rate
No collateral
4.35% above 1-year MCLR
Above 50% to 100% of Loan Value
4.00% above 1-Year MCLR
Above 100% of Loan Value
3.60% above 1-Year MCLR
Fees & Charges
: 1.50% of Loan amount
FAQs
Is Collateral security mandatory for availing tractor loan?
Collateral security is optional for availing a tractor loan. The interest rate for the loan is linked to the value of the collateral provided. If no collateral is offered, the interest rate shall be higher.
Are there any post-sanction requirements when availing tractor loan?
Yes, customer is required to submit the original invoice within 15 days of loan disbursement and copy of Registration Certificate (RC) to be submitted within 30 days from the date of disbursement.
Last Updated On : Thursday, 05-02-2026