Remittances from Middle East - NRI
Instant Transfer
"Instant Transfer is a real time rupee remittance facility from SBI Foreign Offices in 16* countries across the world to your / beneficiary's account maintained with SBI in India at any of the over 22,000 Core Banking Branches of SBI, as also to over 65,000 NEFT/ RTGS enabled branches of other banks in India."
Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, Canada, China, France, Hong Kong, Israel, Japan, Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal, Oman, Singapore, South Africa and UK.
By far the Fastest way to send remittance
Attractive Exchange Rates and low remittance charges
Facility also available to non-account holders (of our foreign branches) at certain centres
Charges for ‘Instant Transfer’ vary at different branches. Branches in some countries may offer the facility at concessional rates to their account holders. Please contact our branch in your Country to know the schedule of charges of ‘Instant Transfer’ for remittances from Middle East to India.
Middle East
Bahrain
Full Commercial Branch, Bahrain
Manager (Operations & Services)
Tel: +973–17530463 / 17531064
Fax: +973-17531029 / 17532435
Toll Free No: +800-81724
Email ID:
sbifcb@batelco.com.bh
Website:
www.sbibahrain.com
Israel
Tel Aviv Branch
Vice President (Operations)
Tel: +972-3-7565402
Fax: +972-3-6005376 / 5377
Email ID:
ceo.israel@statebank.com
Oman
Muscat Branch
Manager (Operations)
Tel: +968-24704232 / 24704233
Email ID:
sbioman@statebank.com
SBI Express
Transfer money through any of our associated Exchange Houses or Banks in Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and UAE to beneficiary's account in SBI in India. You may choose any of the following service to send funds.
Service
Normal Time Taken
SBI Rupee Flash
Instant Credit
SBI Express Rupee
Within 30 minutes
Countries and Exchange Houses or Banks offering these services are mentioned as under. Kindly note that all the above products are not being offered from all the exchange companies listed below. Please check up with the respective exchange house in this regard
Country
Name
Bahrain
Bahrain Financing Co.
Zenj Exchange Co.
Bahrain India International Exchange Co
National Finance and Exchange Co.
Kuwait
City International Exchange Company
Aman Exchange Co
Bahrain Exchange Co.
Kuwait India International Exchange Co.
Joy Alukkas Exchange Co.
Al Mulla International Exchange Co
Al Muzaini Exchange Co.
Lulu Exchange Co.
Kuwait Bahrain International Exchange Co
Al Ansari Exchange Company
Oman
Global Money Exchange Co. (managed by SBI)
Modern Exchange Co.
Mustafa Sultan Exchange Co.
Unimoni Exchange Centre & Co.
Al Jadeed Exchange Co.
Lulu Exchange Co.
Joy Alukkas Exchange Co.
Musandam Exchange Co.
Oman Exchange Co.
Wasel Exchange Co. Oman
Qatar
Al Dar For Exchange Works
City Exchange Co.
Al Zaman Exchange Co.
Islamic Exchange Co.
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Al Rajhi Banking Corporation
Arab National Bank
Saudi National Bank
United Arab Emirates
Al Ahlia Money Exchange Bureau
Al Ansari Exchange Co
Al Fardan Exchange Co.
Al Rostmoney  International Exchange Co.
City Exchange Co.
Index Exchange Co.
Joyalukkas Exchange
Lari Exchange Co.
Lulu International Exchange
Mashreq Bank
Redha Al Ansari Exchange
Al Faud Exchange Co.
Belhasa Global Exchange Co.
Deniba International Exchange Co.
L M Exchange
Emirates NBD Bank
Commercial Bank of Dubai
Al Dahab Exchange
SWIFT / Wire Transfer
You can send remittance to your beneficiary’s account in India from your overseas bank through SWIFT (MT 103). Salient features of this facility are as under:
Facilitates remittances from anywhere in the world to any part in India
Beneficiary's account, if maintained with us, is credited through Core Banking within 1 business day of receipt of message
Accounts of beneficiaries in other Banks will be credited through NEFT / RTGS within 2 business days
Remitters to provide the following information to their Bankers while sending remittance, for incorporating in the SWIFT messages:
Mention correct SWIFT code as per following -
For remittances up to USD 10,000 or equivalent: SBININBBFXD
For remittances more than USD 10,000 or equivalent: SWIFT code of home branch of the beneficiary. If home branch of beneficiary does not have SWIFT code, then please mention SWIFT code of a link branch or any nearby SBI branch of that city / state. Please click here to view the SWIFT codes of all SWIFT enabled SBI branches.
11 digits account number of the beneficiary (with initial digit as non-zero). If International Bank Account Number (IBAN) needs to be mentioned then, please mention beneficiary’s 11 digits account number only in IBAN field. Please do not prefix or suffix SWIFT / IFSC Code etc.
Full name and complete address of beneficiary
SBI Branch Code / IFSC Code
For other banks beneficiary existing CBS account number, bank and branch name, IFSC Code
Full name, address and account number of the remitter
Purpose of remittance
Details of correspondent / intermediary Bank, in case if remitting bank is not direct correspondent of State Bank of India. Please click here to view all correspondent bank accounts.
Rs. 25/- is levied by SBI in India for conversion of foreign currency into Indian Rupees.
Service tax for conversion of Foreign Currency to Indian Currency will be levied, as applicable from time to time.
Sample SWIFT transfer instruction form, which remitter can submit at his / her remitting bank:
Field 56
(Correspondent Bank / Intermediary Institution details)
SBI's Correspondent Bank Name:
SWIFT Code:
SBI's Nostro Account No:
Additional Details (if any):
Please
click here
to view all correspondent bank accounts and corresponding details.
Field 57
(Beneficiary Bank details)
Bank Name:
State Bank of India
SBI Branch Name:
SWIFT Code of SBI Branch:
Please
click here
to view the SWIFT codes of all SWIFT enabled SBI branches
Field 59
(Beneficiary details)
Beneficiary Name:
Beneficiary's Account No:
Beneficiary's Address:
Field 70/72
(Remittance information / purpose of remittance)
Please mention the desired disposal of remittance amount, such as
Convert to Indian Rupees and credit the beneficiary account
Issue NRE / NRO / FCNR (B) deposit for
<please mention the duration>
years in
<please mention the currency
if FCNR (B) has to be created >
currency
Get instructions from beneficiary
In case of any issues about this product, please contact our International Remittance Centre (IRC) helpline from 10:00 to 17:00 hours (IST) at:
Email:
ircresponse.fd@sbi.co.in
or
irc.fd@sbi.co.in
Tel: +91-33-2288 2363 or +91-33-2288 3778
Draft
If a remittance is sent as a Demand Draft, the beneficiary can deposit it at the branch in India where you or your beneficiary hold an account. The draft will be sent to the branch where it is payable. After collection, the proceeds will be deposited in the account. If there is a need for currency conversion, the currency conversion rate prevailing on the date of conversion is applied. Collection charges will be as applicable from time to time. Please
click here
to know more about foreign currency cheques and other instruments collection policy.
Last Updated On : Thursday, 04-06-2026