SBI IOCL Co-Branded Contactless RuPay Debit Card
SBI IOCL Co-Branded RuPay Debit Card is a Contactless Debit Card. The card can be issued to the all the existing / new SBI customers. The card has been specially designed to earn additional Reward Points at all IOCL retail outlets. The card comes with an EMV chip.
The card is available in two variants “Global” and “Platinum”.
Sr No
VARIANTS
1
RUPAY SBI IOCL GLOBAL
2
RUPAY SBI IOCL PLATINUM
SBI IOCL RuPay Debit Card is issued on RuPay platform.
The card is available in two variants “Global” and “Platinum”.
Daily Cash Withdrawal Limit at ATMs
Global
Platinum
Minimum
INR 100
INR 100
Maximum
INR 40,000
INR 40,000
For International transactions: Varies from country to country, subject to a maximum of USD equivalent to INR 50,000/- per month.
Daily PoS/ Online Transaction Limit
Global
Platinum
Minimum
No Limit
No Limit
Maximum
INR 75,000
INR 2,00,000
For International transactions: Varies from country to country, subject to a maximum of USD equivalent to INR 50,000/- per month.
Click here for Debit Card related charges
Earn up to 10,000 SBI Reward Points every month with a cap of Rs. 1,000/- per transaction.
Standard Reward:
Earn 6 Reward Points per Rs.200 spent at IOCL outlets and earn 2 Reward Points per Rs.200 spent on online or in-store, on shopping, dining out, fuel, travel and more with your SBI IOCL Co-branded Debit Card.
Activation Bonus:
Earn up to 300 Bonus Reward Points on making 3 payments with your new SBI IOCL Co-branded Debit Card online or in-store, within 2 months of issuance with minimum transaction of Rs.2000/- 1st Use- 50
2nd Use- 100
3rd Use -150
Milestone Bonus:
Earn 1,000 Bonus Reward Points on PoS and E-comm spends of ₹1 lakh or more in a month. (Spends on MCC-6540 excluded)
Birthday Bonus:
Earn 2x Reward Points on spends made with your Debit Card during your birthday month.
International Payments:
Earn 2x Reward Points on international spending, online or in-store.
Partner Brands:
Earn extra Reward Points on every purchase at Loyalty program partner brands, online, in-store and via SBI Rewardz.
Redeem Reward Points: You can redeem your SBI reward point through our website "rewardz.sbi", SBI REWARDZ App, Yono App and RINB.
Recharge & Bill Payments:
No matter your monthly bill - mobile recharge, DTH, electricity, gas or FASTag, pay through Bharat Bill Pay with your Reward Points and save every month.
Movie Tickets:
Cinema just got more special! Redeem your Reward Points on Book My Show and save on every movie ticket.
Merchandise & E-vouchers:
Explore and save on a range of home & kitchenware, décor, electronics, pooja items, gifting options and more fun shopping.
Travel:
Save on every flight, bus, and hotel booking by redeeming your Reward Points.
Compare & fly for great deals
No convenience fee
Partner Brands:
Redeem Reward Points on every purchase at Loyalty Program partner brands, online, in-store and via SBI Rewardz.
1. How does SBI IOCL Co-Branded RuPay Debit Card work?
SBI IOCL Co-Branded RuPay Debit Card will work as a normal Debit Card and can be used at PoS / Ecom / ATM. you get access to your account whenever and wherever you want. You can use it to purchase goods at merchant establishments, for making payment online and withdraw cash in India as well as across the globe. The PIN will not be prompted if the NFC enabled Card is being used at NFC terminal for transaction up to ₹5000/-.
2. How can SBI IOCL Co-Branded RuPay Debit Card be issued?
All the existing / new customers eligible for Global Debit Card can apply for SBI IOCL Co-Branded RuPay Debit Card through the branch across the country. If the customers already possess a Debit Card of SBI, he can be issued IOCL Co-Branded RuPay Debit Card as two cards can be issued per account per customer.
3. Can the card be used internationally?
Both the variants of SBI IOCL Co-Branded RuPay Debit Card is of international usage. You can use your SBI Debit Card overseas for purchases directly at shopping outlets, restaurants & for withdrawing cash at ATMs. You can use your Debit Card at over 30 million merchants establishments & over 1 million ATMs worldwide.
4. What is the validity of the Card?
5 years from the date of issue.
5. What are the additional benefits of this Card?
This Card entitles customers to immense benefits through offers, reward points on transactions, and much more. Additional reward points are earned for every Rs.200.00 that a customer spends on fuel at all IOCL petrol pumps throughout the country. For any further queries, the customer may be advised to visit https://www.rewardz.sbi or download State Bank Rewardz mobile application.
Scenarios
Rewards Points earned
For every INR 200/- spent at IOCL outlets
6
For every INR 200/- spent at any POS/E-com other than IOCL
2 (Standard Points)
(1 Reward point = INR 0.25)
6. Will the additional rewards points be available at all the outlets of Indian Oil petrol pumps?
IOCL has approx. 30,000 retail outlets across the country. Normally a Debit Card customer get 2 points on every spend of Rs.200.00 over PoS/Ecom. Customer will get 6 rewards points at all the 30,000+ retail outlets on purchase of fuel of Rs.200.00.
Last Updated On : Thursday, 18-12-2025