Implementing Ministry
Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying.
Target Group/ Eligibility
Private companies, Individual entrepreneurs, Sec 8 companies, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME),Dairy Co-operatives and FPOs.
Objective
To enhance milk processing / meat processing capacity besides making available quality concentrated animals feed.
Purpose
To establish new and strengthening of existing Dairy processing and Meat processing including Animal Feed Manufacturing units.
Features
Margin:
10% for Micro and Small Units.
15% for Medium Enterprises.
25% for other categories of entrepreneurs.
Repayment Period:
Maximum repayment 10 years including moratorium.
Moratorium :
The moratorium period will vary from project to project and that is maximum 2 years from the date of disbursement.
Interest Rate:
a).
For Loans under MSME category:
EBLR (External Benchmark Based Lending Rate) + 200 bps.
b). For Other Eligible Entities such as FPOs/ Private companies/ Individual entrepreneurs/ Section 8 companies:
Loan limit below Rs. 50 lakhs
: EBLR +200 bps.
Loan limit of Rs. 50 lakh and above
: As per Bank’s extant guidelines.
Interest Subvention :
Interest subvention of 3% per annum for regular repayments.
The interest subvention will be provided only up to 8 years of repayment period including moratorium.
Portal :
https://portal.udyamimitra.in
Activities eligible for availing benefits under AHIDF
Dairy Processing, Value added dairy product manufacturing, Meat processing, Animal Feed manufacturing, Breed improvement Technology and Breed Multiplication farm/ units, Establishment of IVF Centre, Sex Sorted Semen, Breed Multiplication farm, Setting up of Veterinary Vaccine and Drugs Production Facilities, Animal Waste to Wealth Management (Agri waste management) AND Primary wool processing centre.ंस्करण केंद्र।
Security
Primary Security:
Hypothecation/ Mortgage of assets created out of bank finance viz., plant, buildings, machinery, stocks, etc.
Collateral Security:
Up to Rs.2 Lakhs – Nil
Above Rs.2 Lakhs -
Units registered as MSME unit and Dairy cooperatives:
Collateral Security:
Credit Guarantee under CGTMSE /
NABsanrakshan
Credit guarantee from
CGTMSE
for the loan amount up to Rs. 10.00 Crs
For MSME Units and dairy cooperatives, which are not covered under the above guarantee schemes
: Collateral Security of Minimum 30% of the loan limit to be taken.
For
FPOs
Loan limit up to Rs. 2.00 Crs
:
Collateral Security: Nil,
if Credit Guarantee Cover under the scheme by
NABSanrakshan is availed
.
Limit above Rs. 2.00 Crs:
Collateral Security:
Minimum of 30% of the loan limit.
For all other categories:-
Collateral Security
: Above loan limit of Rs. 2 lakh: Minimum collateral security: 30% of loan limit.
Collateral Security Type which may be accepted:
Mortgage of SARFAESI compliant immovable property belonging to the unit (promoter/ partner/ director) or their near relatives.
OR
National Saving Certificates/ KVPs/ LIC Policies/ Banks Fixed Deposits belonging to the applicant, or the guarantor can be accepted.
Last Updated On : Friday, 20-06-2025