Implementing Ministry
Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare (DAC & FW) under Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare
Target Group/ Eligibility
State agency/ APMCs, National & State Federations of Cooperatives, PACS, Marketing Coop Societies, FPOs, SHGs, JLGs, Multipurpose Cooperative Societies, Framers, Agri entrepreneurs, Start-ups and Central /State Agency or local Body sponsored PPP Projects, (Single entity can now set up max 25 projects different location)
Objective
To mobilize a medium - long term debt financing facility for investment in viable projects for post-harvest management Infrastructure and viable farming assets through incentives and financial support in order to improve agriculture infrastructure.
Purpose
To establish Post-Harvest Management Projects Integrated Primary and secondary processing projects, Cold stores, Viable Farming Assets Warehousing, Silos, Assaying /Grading, packing units, ripening chambers /waxing plants, etc
Features
Margin:
Up to the loan limit Rs. 2 Cr:
Min 10% of the project cost.
Above the loan limit of Rs. 2 Cr:
25% of the project cost.
Repayment Period:
Maximum repayment 10 years including moratorium.
Moratorium:
The moratorium period will vary from project to project and that is minimum 6 months and maximum 2 years from the date of disbursement.
Rate of Interest:
Up to Rs. 2 Crs: 6M MCLR+100 bps (max. of 9% p.a.). Above Rs. 2 Crs: As per Bank’s extant guidelines.
Interest Subvention -
Interest subvention of 3% per annum up to a loan limit of Rs. 2.00 Cr. Subvention will be available for a maximum period of seven (7) years which includes moratorium period (Overall availability for subvention is seven years).
Credit Guarantee
Borrower/ Unit registered as MSME unit:- Covered under CGTMSE up to loan limit of Rs. 2.00
For FPOs /FPCs: - loan up to Rs.2.00 Crs. Credit guarantee from NABSanrakshan
Portal :
http://www.agriinfra.dac.gov.in
Security
Primary Security:
Hypothecation/ Mortgage of assets created out of bank finance such as plant, buildings, machinery, stocks, etc.
b). Collateral Security:
Borrower/ Unit registered as MSME unit:
For Loan accounts covered under CGTMSE up to loan limit of Rs. 2.00 Cr:
For SHGs:
Loan limit up to Rs. 10.00 lakhs:
Loan limit above Rs. 10.00 lakhs up to Rs. 20.00 lakhs:
To be covered under CGFMU coverage
.
Loan limit above Rs. 20.00 lakhs: Minimum collateral security: 30% of credit exposure.
For JLGs (Joint Liability Groups):
Above loan limit of Rs 2 lakh: Minimum collateral security: 30% of credit exposure.
FPOs & FPCs:
Credit Guarantee Scheme under NABSanrakshan:
For Loan accounts not covered under NABSanrakshan: Minimum collateral security: 35% of credit exposure.
For PACS/ Marketing Co-operative Societies, Multipurpose Co-operative Societies, Agri entrepreneurs, Start-ups and Central/ Start-ups and Central/ State agency or Local Body sponsored Public Private Partnerships:
Above loan limit of Rs.2 lakh: Minimum collateral security: 30% of credit exposure.
Collateral Security Type which may be accepted:
Mortgage of SARFAESI complaint immovable property for value not less than 30% of the loan amount by way of first charge pertaining to individual/ proprietor/ partners/ their preferably near relatives.
OR
NSC, KVP
LIC Policy
Bank Deposits
Last Updated On : Friday, 20-06-2025