Vision and Ambition of CoE
India has set a bold vision to become a developed nation by 2047. State Bank of India has conceptualized a Centre of Excellence within Project Finance & Structuring SBU to support the vision of Viksit Bharat 2047. SBI’s CHAKRA CoE is envisioned to be a lighthouse of innovation across eight sunrise sectors, playing a critical role in enabling development of manufacturing ecosystem across these high-potential sectors
Renewables
Data Centres
E-Mobility & Charging Infra
Advanced Cell Chemistry / Battery
Semiconductors
Green Hydrogen and Ammonia
Decarbonization
Smart Infrastructure.
By 2030, these eight sunrise sectors are expected to unlock cumulative capital expenditure of over INR 100 lakh crore. The CoE will work towards enabling this investment, enhancing India’s integration into global value chain, and accelerating progress toward the country’s sustainability and Net Zero goals.
Additionally, the CoE will drive technology & AI innovation and play an advisory role, supporting not only the SBI’s Project Finance & Structuring team but also the broader financial ecosystem in India. It will engage actively with external stakeholders - with policymakers and regulatory bodies to shape a robust manufacturing ecosystem, that supports investment, innovation, and sustainability.
“
India has to focus on emerging sectors such as semiconductors, green hydrogen, battery storage, etc to drive the vision of Viksit Bharat 2047. Over the years, SBI has been helping players across industries with capability development and financing based on our expertise. The Centre of Excellence is a coordinated body established to help finance projects specifically in these emerging sectors.
”
C S Setty
Chairman, State Bank of India
The name CHAKRA is an abbreviation constituting the above 8 sectors of focus for the CoE and also symbolizes incessant progress coupled with the theme of a circular economy.
Your browser does not support the video tag.
Last Updated On : Friday, 13-02-2026