Insta Home Top Up Loan ( IHTL)
1. What is Insta Home Top-Up Loan
Insta Home Top-Up Loan is a pioneer Product launched to provide our existing Home Loan Customers with better and hassle-free personal finance facility. The selection of Customers, processing of their loan request, disbursement of loan and setting of S.I. in the Saving Bank a/c for repayment of EMI would be done automatically by the system.
2. What is the purpose of the Inst Home top-up Loan?
Any personal purpose other than speculative purpose. A declaration to this effect has been included in the ‘Terms &Conditions’ accepted by the borrower.
3. What are the eligibility criteria for the Loan
Existing Home Loan customers will be pre-selected for offering this product based on following eligibility:
i. Minimum Home loan limit of 10 Lakhs
ii. Minimum residual tenure of home loan should be 3 years
iii. Home loan acc maximum up to 02 borrowers
iv. Satisfactory track record of 1 years or more, fully disbursed home loan account, Equitable mortgage of Primary security/Home should have been successfully created
v. Customer should not have live loan under Home Top up loan, Smart Top up loan and Insta Home Top Up Loan.
vi. NPA status of home loan below RG2
vii. CIBIL Score of 650 or more
viii. Repayment of Home loan should be through SI or ECS / NACH but maintaining SB account with us with mode of operation single/wither or survivor viii. Residual maturity of underlying home loan up to or above 120 months
ix. Home loan account and repayment account should be under same CIF
4. How do I know my eligibility for Insta Home Top-up Loan
Based on the above-mentioned conditions, existing Home Loan borrowers will be pre-selected and a Popup conveying the Insta Home Top-up Loan offer will be shown to the selected customers when they access their account through the YONO App / Portal
5. Co-applicant consent process
In case existing home loan account is in joint name, then after the completion of process by primary applicant, co-applicant also is required to give his / her consent, after which disbursement will be done. The navigation path for co-applicant to give consent is: Login YONO >> Click on menu (top left – hamburger menu) >> Service Request >> Pending Request Alternative path: Login YONO >> Home page >> Under quick links, click on Service Request >> Pending Request
6. What is the Validity of the Offer?
The offer made to pre-selected customers will be valid for a period of 30 days from the date of activation of the offer on YONO SBI App or till the next refresh. A fresh list of eligible customers will be uploaded on YONO platform and a pop-up message conveying offer will be shown to the selected customers on their YONO App. However, the offer message will not be shown to the ineligible customers.
7. How many loans can be availed under the scheme?
Presently only one Top-Up Loan can be availed at any moment
8. What is the Loan Amount available under the scheme?
8% of Home Loan Limit Minimum – Rs. 0.50 lacs Maximum – Rs. 8.00 lacs (whichever is Lower)
9. What is the Nature of facility?
The Nature of facility would be of Overdraft type (with reducing drawing power).
10. What is the maximum number of Insta Home Top up Loans?
At any point of time, only one `Insta Top-Up Home Loan’ will be permitted. Aggregate limits of all top-up loans, including Insta Top up (INB), Smart top up and Regular Top up cannot exceed Rs. 8.00 lacs without extending mortgage on Home Property.
11. What are the repayment terms of the facility?
The overdraft will be repayable by way of EMIs commencing on the date selected by the customer. Standing Instructions (SI) for EMI repayment will automatically be set up on account from which repayment of existing home loan is made
12. What is the security for the facility?
An undertaking from the borrower will be obtained online, authorizing the Bank to hold original Title Deeds of the house property already mortgaged to the Bank for Home Loan, till the liquidation of all loans including the proposed Insta Top-up Home Loan. However, extension of mortgage over the house property will not be obtained.
13. Is Creation/Extension of Mortgage necessary for the Loan?
No. Extension of mortgage over the house property will not be obtained.
14. What is the Interest rate applicable for the facility?
For current interest rates, reference to be made to latest circulars issued on Interest rates from time to time and Bank’s website
15. What is the processing fee for the product?
A flat Processing Fee of Rs.2000 plus applicable GST will be levied under the product. Processing fees will be automatically recovered from customer’s account and credited to commission account.
16. Pre-Payment
Loans under the scheme may be pre-paid at any time without payment of any pre-payment penalty.
17. Is any Manual Intervention required?
No, Manual Intervention is required. Under Insta Home Top-up Loan Scheme, the selection of customers, processing of their loan request, disbursement of loan and setting of S.I. in their Saving Account for repayment of EMIs will be done automatically by the system and no manual intervention will be required.
18. How will the Terms and Conditions accepted by the customer?
Acceptance of Terms and Conditions will be validated using a “One Time Password (OTP)” sent to the borrower’s registered mobile number.
19. Is the Product / Offer available in Offline Mode?
No. The Product is available only in online mode through YONO app/Portal
20. Help and Support
In case of any difficulty, Customer may contact the Bank’s contact centre at 1800 1234 (dedicated for YONO) or can visit your branch during business hours
Last Updated On : Tuesday, 04-02-2025