Presenting Gifts to Employees and also to near and dear ones during festive season or on special occasions is an integral and unique culture in India. Traditionally, gifts have been given in the form of cash or kind. With the advancement of Banking, Gift Cheques were introduced, allowing the beneficiary to use the money according to their wishes. These cheques, however, are accepted at the issuing bank branches only. The State Bank Gift Card, issued in association with VISA International, is one such product which gives the comfort of convenience and wide acceptability.
State Bank Gift Card is a Pre-paid Plastic Card supported by Magnetic-strip based technology. It is usable at all VISA enabled Merchant Establishments at Point of Sale by signature and over Internet for e-Commerce transactions by using secure
Verified by Visa
. It is a perfect substitute for Gift Vouchers sold by many retail houses as its use is not restricted to any particular Merchant.
Features
All State Bank of India Branches : Normal Gift Card for all purposes.
Online through SBI Internet Banking website www.onlinesbi.com for all SBI customers availing Internet Banking facility: Purpose Specific personalized image based Gift cards such as Anniversary gift card, Birthday gift card, Christmas gift card, Congratulation gift card, Diwali gift card, Durga Pooja gift card, EID Mubarak gift card, Jubilee Wishes gift card, New Year gift card besides Gift Card for all purposes.”
State Bank Gift Card is not re-loadable
Minimum Amount of Issue Rs. 500 and thereafter in multiples of Re. 1/-
Maximum Amount of Issue : Rs. 10,000/-
State Bank Gift Cards can only be used at VISA enabled Merchant Establishments at Point of sale and over Internet for e-Commerce transactions by using secure
Verified by Visa. Facility of cash withdrawal is not available on this Card.
Download Manual for One View Portal
Cardholder can view the balance in the State Bank Gift Card and also obtain a transaction receipt indicating the balance from any State Bank Group ATM in India free of cost and also online at
https://prepaid.sbi.bank.in
The validity of the card is for 3 years from the date of issue.
Daily Transaction Limit No Limit; upto the available balance in the Card.
The Card can also be personalized, upon request by the Corporates for Bulk Issue.
Issuance and replacement fee Default Mag-Stripe: – Rs. 100/- + GST
Issuance and replacement fee Image based Gift Card: Rs. 105/- + GST
Gift cards to be issued only by debit to full KYC compliant accounts with SBI.
Last Updated On : Tuesday, 09-06-2026