Seamless online registration process for MSMEs
Purpose :
Any person who intends to establish a micro, small or medium enterprise (MSME) may file Udyam Registration online in the Udyam Registration portal on self-declaration. No fees is charged for applying Udyam registration.
An enterprise for the purpose of this process will be known as Udyam and its Registration Process will be known as ‘Udyam Registration’
Features
Procedure :
An enterprise for the purpose of this process will be known as Udyam and its Registration Process will be known as ‘Udyam Registration’
Step 1: Go to https://udyamregistration.gov.in/
Step 2: Fill your Aadhaar no, name as per aadhaar and click on “Validate & Generate OTP”
Step 3: PAN Verification
Step 4: Filling of Udyam registration form
Post successful verification of Aadhar, Udyam Registration Certificate will be generated
Post registration process :
A permanent registration number will be given after registration.
After completion of the process of registration, a certificate will be issued online.
This certificate will have a dynamic QR Code from which the web page on our Portal and details about the enterprise can be accessed.
There will be no need for renewal of Registration.
Our single window systems at Champions Control Rooms and at DICs will help you in the process.
Penalty in case of misrepresentation of facts :
Penalty for misrepresents or attempts to suppress the self-declared facts and figures shall be punishable :
In case of 1st Conviction, with fine which may extend to Rs. 1000/- and
In case of 2nd or subsequent Conviction with fine which shall not be less than Rs. 1000/- but may extend to Rs. 10,000.
Eligibility
Eligibility :
Entities as per the definition of MSMEs will be eligible for the Udyam Registration
Documentation
Documentation :
Nil. Only mobile number should be linked to Aadhaar card (Having PAN & GST number is mandatory from 01.04.2021)
Following are the benefits of obtaining Udyam Registration :
The business owner can avail octroi and tax conession in states laws as applicable.
Claim stamp duty and registration fees waiver.
Exemption of 1% interest rate on Overdraft.
Can avail subsidy from NSIC and credit ratings & Eligible for IPS subsidy.
Reimbursement on the payment made for obtaining the ISO certificate.
Reservation of products for exclusive manufacturing by MSME and SSI.
Avail Excise Exemption Scheme.
Avail exemption while applying for government tenders.
Exemption under direct tax laws.
Enjoy easy bank mortgages and Bank Business Loans
Bank loans become cheaper as the interest rate is very low (Upto 1.5% lower than interest on regular loans
Becomes easy to get licenses, approvals and registrations, irrespective of field of business as business registered under Udyam are given higher preference for government license and certification.
Registered Udyams gets tariff subsidies and tax and capital subsidies
Interest rate Subsidy on Bank loans
Protection against delayed payments, against material/services supplied
Ease of obtaining registrations, licenses, and approvals.
MSME Registered entity gets eligible for CLCSS (credit linked capital subsidy scheme)
Subsidy is available for Patent registration
Industrial Promotion Subsidy (IPS) Subsidy Eligibility
One can avail 100% Collateral Free loans from all banks
Special consideration on International Trade fairs
Bar Code Registration Subsidy
Waiver in Security Deposit in Government Tenders and Departments
Concession in Electricity bills
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 11-11-2020