SBI New Car/Vehicle Loan
SBI offers you the best deal for financing your new car. Lowest car loan interest rates, lowest EMI, minimal paperwork and quick disbursement.

Salient Features
Lowest Vehicle loan Interest Rates & EMI;
Longest Repayment Tenure (7 years);
Financing on ‘On-Road price':
On-Road price includes Registration & Insurance.
Vehicle Loan Interest calculated on Daily Reducing Balance;
For purchase of new passenger cars, Multi Utility Vehicles (MUVs) and SUVs.
No prepayment charges
No foreclosure charges after 2 year
Financing Upto 100% of 'On-road Price'
No Advance EMI
Optional SBI Life Insurance cover available
Interest Rate : Click here to view the interest rates
Processing fee : Click here to view the Processing Fee
Flexi pay option in car loan/vehicle loan
Bank has exclusive Flexi pay option for its customer. Under Flexi pay option, borrowers can choose either of the below 2 options

First 6 months EMI to be 50% of Regular EMI applicable, provided, the tenure of loan is minimum 36 months.
First 6 months EMI to be 50% of Regular EMI applicable & next 6 months 75% of Regular EMI applicable, provided, the tenure of loan is minimum 60 months.
Dial 1800-11-2211 for more information/ applying through Contact Centre
Give a Missed Call on 7208933142 or SMS “CAR” on 7208933145 to get a call back from our Contact Centre
Eligibility
To avail an SBI Car (Vehicle Loan), you should be an individual aged 21 to 70 years, belonging to one of the following 3 categories:
Category	Income Criteria	Max. Loan Amount
Regular employees of Central Public Sector Enterprises (Maharatnas/ Navratnas/ Miniratnas).   Defence Salary package (DSP), Para Military salary package (PMSP) & Indian Coastal Guard Package (IGSP) Customers and Short Commissioned Officers of various Defence establishments. 	Net Annual Income of applicant and/or co-applicant if any, together should be a minimum of Rs. 3,00,000/-.	48 times of the Net Monthly Income.
Professionals, Self-employed, Businessmen, proprietary/partnership firms and others who are income tax assesses	Net Profit or Gross Taxable income of              Rs. 3, 00,000/- p.a.
(income of co-applicant can be clubbed together).	4 times Net Profit or Gross Taxable income as per ITR after adding back depreciation and repayment of all existing loans.
Persons engaged in agriculture and allied activities. Income Tax return is not required in case of agriculturists.	Net Annual income of applicant and/or co applicant together should be a minimum of Rs. 4, 00,000/-.	3 times of Net Annual Income.

Documents required 


KYC Documents

Applicant with KYC compliant account with SBI

New Customer/ KYC non-compliant account with SBI

No fresh KYC document is required.


Proof of Identity: (Copy of Anyone) Passport/ PAN Card/ Proof of possession of Aadhar Number/ Voters ID card/ Driving License etc.

Address proof to be provided in case of change of address.

Proof of Residence/ Address: (Copy of Anyone) Driving License/Voters ID card/Proof of possession of Aadhar Number/Passport /Telephone Bill/ Electricity bill/Life Insurance policy

Copy of PAN Card is not required, if available in Bank's record.

Copy of PAN Card is mandatory, if not available in Bank’s record.

NRI Car Loan (for NRI borrowers)- Copy of passport/visa is not required, if the same is available in Bank’s record.

NRI Car Loan (for NRI borrowers)- Passport copy with page containing visa stamping is required, if the same is not available in Bank’s record.

You would need to submit the following other documents along with the completed application form:

Salaried

Statement of bank account for last 6 months.

2 passport size photographs

Income Proof: Latest Salary Slip, Form 16

I.T. Returns or Form 16 for the last 2 years.

Form 16/ITR is waived for our Salary Package customers who are maintaining their salary account with the Bank for minimum 12 months.

Statement of Bank Account (For six months) is waived for our Salary Package customers who are maintaining Salary account with us.

Non-Salaried/ Professional/Businessmen

Statement of bank account for last 6 months.

2 passport size photographs

Income Proof: Latest Salary Slip, Form 16 for the last 2 years

Audited Balance sheet, P&L statement for 2 years, Shop & establishment act certificate / sales tax certificate / SSI registered certificate / copy of partnership.

Person engaged in agricultural and allied activities.

Statement of bank account for last 6 months.

2 passport size photographs

Direct agricultural activity (crop cultivation): Khasra/Chitta Adangal (showing cropping pattern) Patta/Khatoni (showing land holding) with photograph. All land should be on free hold basis and ownership proof to be in the name of borrower.

Allied agricultural activity (like Dairy, Poultry, Plantation/ Horticulture) Documentary proof of running of the activities to be provided.



Is SBI car loan good?

Yes, SBI is known to give good deals on a car loan

Does SBI provide 100% car loan?

No, SBI finances up to 90% of the car’s on-road price. However, the amount may vary depending on your score of Credit Information Companies (CICs) and income.

What is minimum salary for car loan SBI?

The net annual income of  a salaried applicant and/or co-applicant if any, together should essentially be a minimum of Rs 3,00,000

What is current SBI car loan interest rate?

For a new the car, the loan interest rate is 8.80% to 9.80%, while for purchasing a green car (an electric vehicle), it ranges from 8.75% to 9.45%.

Who can avail of SBI Car Loans?

Salaried and non-salaried individuals who are between 21 and 67 years of age can avail of SBI car loans.

What is the minimum EMI limit for SBI Car Loan?

The minimum EMI limit for the SBI Car loan is Rs 1,622 per lakh. The amount paid as EMI is inclusive of both principal sum and interest amount.

Is there a penalty on the prepayment of SBI car loans?

No penalty is charged on prepayment of SBI car loans.

Factors affecting your SBI Bank Car Loan Interest Rates
The bank doesn’t give the same interest rate for every borrower. SBI car loan interest rates vary on the basis of a few variables, such as your age, income, employer, credit score, etc. Here is a look at the most significant factors that impact the interest rates for your car loan at SBI Bank:

Credit Score

A significant factor for calculating your car loan interest rate is your credit score. A good credit score means that your repayment history is good. A higher loan amount and lower interest rate are guaranteed. A higher credit score is regarded by banks as an indicator of your creditworthiness. This significantly affects the eligibility of your loan amount and interest rate.

Income

A higher salary guarantees the repayment of the loan on time. Banks provide people with higher salaries with better loan terms. Banks also favour salaried individuals over self-employed individuals because salaries mean that the account receives regular cash flow. Self-employed professionals, however, have an advantage over salaried individuals since they earn more than they do.

However, note that despite having a higher income if you have already taken several other loans and have a huge debt-to-income ratio, then you may not enjoy the best possible interest rates on your car loan.

Your Age

During the car loan application process, the age of the borrower plays an important role. The younger the borrower, the higher the number of years he has to pay back the loan. Individuals who are 21 years of age can avail themselves car loans. In contrast to older applicants, the loan amount and interest rates are very favourable for applicants of a younger generation.

Vehicle Model and Age

The vehicle would act as collateral in the case of a car loan. The bank or the NBFC would seize the vehicle in the event that the EMIs are not received. When setting interest rates, the type and age of the vehicle are then taken into consideration. A respectable manufacturer's new vehicles have lower interest rates compared to older ones. As the value of the car depreciates with age, used vehicles also come with high interest rates.

Type of Employment & Employer

Employment with a reputable company would certainly get you a decent deal on interest rates on your SBI Bank Car Loan. In authorizing the loan, several banks have a list of accredited employers and reputable bodies to which they refer. Employment in these companies guarantee the security of work and the flow of income to bankers. You are also allowed to seek an offer of higher car loan amounts and lower interest rates.

Relationship with the lender

Bank customers with a long term relationship are always given preference, based on the fact that their credit record is easier to access. The bank will be able to check your account history, any previous credit or credit card payments and your general financial status if you are a current SBI Bank client. Thus, the active customer is given preferential interest rates on loans.

Adding a co-contributor on the application

If you have another earning member of the family, you can add them to the loan as a co-applicant so that their income is also taken into account while processing your application for car loans. If both of your income is entered, the result is a higher repayment potential and thus a lower interest rate.

Amount of down payment

While SBI Bank gives you up to 90% of the vehicle's road cost as a loan value, if you can make a higher down payment, you can negotiate better interest rates. Higher down payments mean lower debt balances and greater repayment potential. Banks are actively searching for low-cost lending consumers to reduce their default credit risk. So when you offer a higher down payment, you have a shot at having a lower interest rate.

Existing liabilities and investments

Last but not least, your current loans and obligations play an important part in assessing the eligibility of your car loan and interest rates. If you have current obligations, the repayment potential would be limited. This is perceived to be a high risk plan for the lender. It would also place more pressures on the cash flow. Therefore, an individual with a very low or no current liability is a preferred candidate for any bank.

FAQ Car Loan
Q. What makes of cars does SBI finance?
A. For purchase of new Passenger cars, Multi Utility Vehicles
(MUVs) and Sports Utility Vehicles (SUVs) and Certified Pre-owned
Cars.
Q. Can my spouse's income be included for calculating the loan amount?
A. Yes, your spouse's income can be included provided he/she
joins as co-borrower.
Q. What is the repayment schedule like?
A. The minimum amount that you are expected to pay every month is the
EMI.
You can repay the loan in upto 84 EMIs. (For Green Car loan 8-year
repayment period is available).
Q. What is EMI? How is it calculated?
A. EMI stands for Equated Monthly Instalment. This instalment
comprises both principal and interest components. Your EMI would be
calculated depending on the tenor you choose, to repay your loan. The
EMI would be higher if you choose to repay within a shorter period as
against a longer-term loan.
You can also contact your nearest SBI Branch or visit Bank website to
know the EMI for proposed loan amount and tenor.
Q. What Security do I have to furnish for availing the Car Loan?
A. No collateral security is not required for availing car loan but
our Hypothecation charge in favour of Bank on the vehicle financed is
to be noted with Regional Transport Authorities.
For Assured Car Loan Unencumbered Fixed Deposit with our Bank is
required. Third party FDR is not acceptable.
Q. How does SBI Car Loan compare with those offered by other institutions?
A. There is total transparency with regards to the rate of interest
and the fees charged by us.
No Pre-payment charges.
Competitive rate of interest.
100% on road finance on selected models
We levy interest on daily reducing balance, unlike the flat rate of
interest or interest based on annual reducing balance method used by
several other financiers.
We provide finance for one-time road tax, registration fee and
insurance premium also.
We do not charge any advance EMIs.
We offer loans for the longest tenors (96 months for Electric Cars).
We provide finance for both new vehicles as well as Certified
Pre-owned cars.