Citizens Charter of State Bank of India
Preface
I. State Bank of India strongly believes that a satisfied customer is the most important factor for growth of its business. The Bank was the first in India to introduce a code of Fair Banking Practices in India called Towards Excellence. The code reflected the commitment of the Bank to provide Banking services of a high order to individual banking customers. The code came into effect from October 1997 as part of the Golden Jubilee Celebrations of Indian Independence. The Code was substantially revised in the year 2005 taking into consideration the transformation in banking practices and customer service standards that have since taken place.
II. In February 2006, Reserve Bank of India set up the Banking Codes and Standards Board of India (BCSBI) as an independent autonomous watchdog to ensure that customers get fair treatment in their dealings with Banks. The BCSBI has published the Code of Banks Commitments to Customers (the Code) in January 2018, which sets minimum standards of banking practice and benchmarks in customer service for banks to follow. SBI is a member of the BCSBI and has therefore voluntarily adopted the Code as its Fair Practice Code in dealings with its customers. The complete copy of the Code is available at
https://bank.sbi/documents/53471/263971/Code+of+Bank-Commitment+to+Customers+-+January+2018.pdf
III. This document called the Citizens Charter of State Bank of India provides key information on various facilities/services provided to customers in ordinary branches of State Bank of India. The Code together with the Citizens Charter will thus ensure high standards of accountability, responsibility and transparency in the Banks dealings with customers. The Charter also provides comprehensive information on Banks Grievance redressal mechanism. It also specifies the obligations on the part of the customers for healthy banker-customer relationship.
IV. This is not a legal document creating rights and liabilities. The information on general terms and conditions provided herein may not apply to special branches of the Bank like Personal Banking Branches etc. (The information on services provided by these branches can be obtained from the branches or the helplines of the respective Local Head office Centres). Loans and advances may also have specific terms and conditions not mentioned in the Charter. However, all terms and conditions will comply with the principles and commitments undertaken by the Bank in the Code.
V. Copies of the Code and Citizens Charter will be available on request to all our customers at our branches, administrative offices and at our web site. We will ensure that all our staff members are aware of the commitments contained in these documents and faithfully implement them.
VI. The Charter provides essential information on transactions relating to savings, current and fixed deposit accounts, collections and remittances, grievance redressal etc. For further details and complete information on terms and conditions of service visit our branches or write to our Local Head Offices (addresses and contact nos. available on our website
https://bank.sbi/web/customer-care/contact-us"
or contact us)
VII. Information given is subject to change / revision. The Bank will endeavour to update the information on the website when changes are made but please contact the nearest branch / RBO / Zonal Office / Local Head Office for the latest changes, if any.
VIII. We request all our customers to keep us informed of their experiences about the customer services rendered at our branches and feel free to comment on the Code and Citizens Charter. Your feedback will help us evaluate, improve and widen our range of services. Your comments and feedback may be sent to the address given in paragraph VI above.
Key Commitments
Our Key Commitments To Customers:
We promise that we will act courteously, fairly and reasonably in all our dealings with you
We will make sure that our documents and procedures are clear and not misleading and that you are given clear information about our products and services.
When you have chosen an account or service we will give you clear information about how it works, the terms and conditions and the interest rates which apply to it.
We will help you use your account or service by sending you regular statements (where appropriate) and we will keep you informed about changes to the interest rates, charges or terms and conditions.
We will deal quickly and sympathetically with things that go wrong by correcting mistakes quickly, handling complaints quickly and reversing any bank charges applied in error.
We will treat all your personal information as private and confidential, and operate secure and reliable banking and payment systems.
We will publicise our Citizens Charter, have copies available and make sure that our staff are trained to put it into practice.
WE EXPECT OUR CUSTOMERS TO:
to help us meet the Know Your Customer (KYC) guidelines at the time of opening the account
take precautions that are indicated for protection of their accounts
Avail services like Automated Teller Machine (ATM), Online banking, Electronic Clearing System (ECS), Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) etc. if offered by the branch.
Avail nomination facility for their accounts and safe deposit lockers.
Not to introduce any person not known personally for the purpose of opening account.
Pay service charges for non maintenance of minimum balances, return of cheques, remittances, collections etc. The details of charges are available on the Banks web site and also with our branches.
Provide valuable feedback on our services so as to enable us to correct our mistakes and improve our customer service.
Last Updated On : Friday, 16-06-2023