About Us
State Bank Foundation Institute ‘Chetana’, Indore is SBI’s Apex Training Institute which strives to champion the value of people and workplace culture that thrive in reframing work, productivity, innovation and vitality. Its prime focus is on-boarding, orientation and designing /delivering of induction programs for Officers, laterally recruited employees and contractual employees of SBI to make them future ready. The Institute hosts similar programs for professionals from other Banking and Financial Institutions too.
Located in Indore, the cleanest city of India, it is an ISO 9001:2015 certified Institute which started its journey as Staff Training Centre of the erstwhile State Bank of Indore in 2001. It has a strong pool of experienced faculty members having rich exposure in operational and training domains. With its 4.4 acres campus, equipped with state-of-the-art classrooms and amenities, SBFI strives to be the leading Institution in the field of training executives across various facets of Banking.
Mr Rajesh Chourey,Director & Head
Rajesh Chourey (Dy. General Manager) is a seasoned banking professional with over 34 years of distinguished service in the State Bank of India. He currently serves as the Director and Head of the State Bank Foundation Institute ‘Chetana’ in Indore.
Throughout his extensive career, he has held diverse and impactful roles across Agricultural, SME, and Retail Banking. He has successfully led multiple branches as Branch Head and demonstrated consistent leadership and operational excellence. He also served as a BS certified faculty member at the State Bank Institute of Learning & Development, where he was recognized as the Best Faculty. His leadership journey also includes his tenure as Regional Manager at Indore and Ujjain, where he was a proud member of the prestigious CGM Club. His strong foundation in Human Resource Management is reflected in his key roles as Chief Manager (HR) and Assistant General Manager (HR) at the Local Head Office in Bhopal, followed by his appointment as Deputy General Manager, CDO at the Bengaluru Circle.
His core areas of expertise include Human Resources, Training & Development, and Retail Banking. At Chetana, he leads a dedicated team of 26 members, including 14 experienced faculty. Beyond his professional pursuits, he is an avid sports enthusiast and enjoys reading and music.
Faculty
Mr. Sharat Shrivastava
Mr. Sharat Shrivastava, a Bachelor of Computer Applications, joined the Bank as Probationary Officer in 2011. He has completed his CAIIB along with various certifications such as AML/ KYC from IIBF, CICC from Moody's, SME Credit certification from CRISIL. He has vast experience of Branch Management, Retail and SME Credit and NPA Management.
Ms. Ashima Sahu
Ms. Ashima Sahu joined Bank as Probationary Officer in 2007.She is a graduate in Mathematics and has completed various certificate courses by IIBF like Trade Finance, KYC and AML, Wealth Management including CAIIB. She has vast operational experience of working in various branches of the Bank in SME credit, Forex, Retail Banking, etc.
Sh. VENKATARAMANAN MANI
Shri Mani is a Certified Behavioral Science (BS) facilitator. His area of experience includes Operations, Retail, SME, ALM. He also has exposure of Market Related Fund Transfer Pricing (MRFTP) mechanism on the Oracle Financial Services Analytical Applications platform.
Sh. Rahul Sharma
Sh. Sharma completed his M.Sc. in Maths. He joined SBI as Probationary Officer in 2002. He has also worked as Manager Compliance & MLRO at SBI DIFC Dubai. He has vast experience working in Branch Management, Credit Performance Monitoring & NPA Management. He has done CAIIB and PGDFA from IIBF along with other certifications.
Sh. Mukesh Hotchandani
Shri Mukesh has joined Bank as Clerk Cum Cashier in the year 2001. He got elevated as Trainee Officer in 2005 and confirmed directly as MMGS-I1. He has worked as Field Officer (Per & SME segment), Branch Head in Scale I, 1, and IV in Per, SME, and Agri intensive Branches. He has also been an ex-faculty of SBILD Indore. He has good exposure to Retail, BS, and Technology products of the Bank. He is a postgraduate with MBA (Finance), B. Sc. (Bio), CAIIB Both parts. He also holds various certifications in various areas of Banking such as lIBF Certification in Digital Banking, KYC and AML, Certified Info System Banker (CelSB), and Human Resource Management.
Sh Vikas Srivastava
Mr Srivastava is a Science graduate, postgraduate in Ancient Indian History and CAIIB. He has an experience of more than 21 years in the Bank. He has rich experience in various areas like Operations, Credit (all segments), Compliance & Risk and all the other areas of customer service & Retail Banking.
Mr K V N Surya Kiran
Mr K V N Surya Kiran joined the Bank in 2008 as Probationary Officer. He is a commerce graduate from Osmania University, Hyderabad. He has done specialised courses in the Banking arena like CAIIB from IIBF, Moody’s Certificate course in Commercial Credit, IIBF certificate courses in SME Finance and Trade finance. Having worked in SME intensive branches of the Bank for many years, he has acquired rich experience in the area of SME credit.
Ms. Preeti Vasanth
Ms. Preeti completed her Master's degree in Mathematics. She joined the Bank in 2007 as Probationary Officer. She has an extensive experience in various facets of Banking eg. Retail & General Banking, Credit, Digitalization, Government business, Currency management, Customer service etc.
Sh Ashok Singh
Sh Ashok did his Masters, in Economics from Delhi School of Economics, He is NET (National Eligibility Test) qualified in Economics and CAIIB and has rich experience of working in credit and operations and Branch management.
Shri Sravan DVN
Sri. Sravan DVN is Bachelors of Commerce from Sri Venkateshwara University, Tirupathi. He joined the Bank in 2009 as Assistant and later got promoted to Trainee Officer in 2012 and got confirmed to MMGS-II in 2014. Since then he has been posted as Branch Manager in four branches. He was also entrusted the responsibility of Chief Manager (Credit & NPA) in Bank’s Regional Business Office – Jogulamba in Hyderabad Circle. He has completed the certification course of AML/CFT and NCFM. He has rich experience in Operations, Retail Credit, Compliance and Customer Service.
Smt Paulamee Sinha
Ms Paulamee Sinha is a Post-Graduate in Forest Management, from Forest Research Institute, Dehradun and a Certified Associate of the Indian Institute of Bankers (CAIIB). She began her career in the bank as a Probationary Officer in 2011. She has varied experience in areas of credit, HR, Finance, Branch Administration and Customer Relations.
Ms. Apoorva Verma
Ms. Verma is a postgraduate in Economics. Xhe has a rich operational experience of working in various branches of the Bank. She has been Branch Manager for almost ten years and headed four branches during this time. Her expertise is in the area of Retail Credit, NPA management, Operations, Customer Service and Branch Management.
Ms Neha Upadhyaya
Ms Upadhyaya is a postgraduate in Biotechnology and CAIIB. She is a Certified Treasury Professional and also holds certifications in Digital Banking, Cyber Crime & Fraud Management, AML/KYC, Customer Service & BCSBI and International Trade Finance. She has rich experience in Housing loans, branch operation and customer service.
Shri Amol A. Rode
Shri Amol A. Rode did his bachelor's in Enginerring and Master of Management Studies (Finance).He joined Bank in 2010 as a probationery officer. He has vast experience in Retail Credit, General Banking, Government Business, Currency Management, Customer Service etc.
Sh Harsh Sen, Research Officer
Harsh Sen joined the bank as a Probationary Officer in 2012. He is a Mathematics Graduate and also holds an MBA (Finance) degree. In addition to this he also holds certificates such as, CAIIB, CICC (Moody’s), NSE’s Certification in Investment Analysis and Portfolio Management and Certification in MSME & Working Capital Lending by CRISIL.
He has rich experience in Retail Banking, especially Handling of Currency Chest and government business. He has also worked in Agriculture Banking, NPA Management, SME Credit (in roles of Credit Support Officer and Relationship Manager) and Forex Operations.
Courses Offered
Sl No
Course Name
Download
1
Effective Leadership
Download
2
Onboarding Programme
Download
3
Programme for Women Officials
Download
4
Programme for HR Officials
Download
Nomination
Please send attached nomination form through mail to
sbfi.admin@sbi.co.in
and
director.sbfi@sbi.co.in
with all details
Nomination Form
.
Modes Of Payment
Beneficiary Name : State Bank Foundation Institute ‘Chetana, Indore – Collection A/C
Account No. : 31481827099
Bank / Branch : SBI BHAMORI BRANCH Indore (Br Code 30184)
IFSC Code: SBIN0030184
(Please note UTR No. for nomination form)
Discount
10% to organizations who nominate 5 or more participants for any programme
Contact Us
For Training and Payment related information :
Email :
sbfi.admin@sbi.co.in
Contact No :
+91 731 2578004 / 2578016
Address :-
State Bank Foundation Institute ‘Chetana’
Plot No 8-9, Sector ‘A’, Slice No. 06
Scheme No.78, Vijay Nagar
Indore- 452010
Madhya Pradesh
Email: sbfi.admin@sbi.co.in
Contact No. : +91 731 2578004 / 2578016
Google Map :
View Map
Infrastructure
Participants’ Voice
"It is one of the best training programme that I’ve attended in my 9 years of service life.it is my opinion that all executives should undergo such training programme and sensitize the team in branches.
Programme on Effective Leadership for Newly Promoted Chief Managers, Allahabad Bank
"
"Till now in tenure of my banking career, first time attended training session which should be given to all employees during start of career for effective human resource ultimately for the benefit of the organisation.
Programme on Effective Leadership for Newly Promoted Chief Managers, Allahabad Bank
"
"Programme was complete programme in such short time. It covered aspects that we have in our day to day life. It will not only help us in reshaping /read just ourselves but also be useful for the organisation
Programme on Effective Leadership for Newly Promoted Chief Managers, Allahabad Bank
"
"It was a great learning time in centre. Apart from academic session we have activities too. All the activities organised by the centre were full of learning, fun and had a deep impact.
On-boarding Programme for Newly recruited Probationary Officers , State Bank of India
"
"Foundation Training Programme (FTP) 1 was a wonderful experience. we learned a lot about the various banking aspects. We are looking forward to giving our best to this organisation.
On-boarding Programme for Newly recruited Probationary Officers , State Bank of India
"
"It was an experience for lifetime. Everything was much organised and very well delivered. More than we have expected.
On-boarding Programme for Newly recruited Probationary Officers , State Bank of India
"