Credit Guarantee Scheme-I OF CGTMSE
Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGS-I Scheme) came into force from August 1, 2000 covering eligible credit facilities extended by the Member Lending Institutions (MLIs) to eligible borrowers effective from June 1, 2000. The Scheme provides Guarantee cover for sanction of collateral free loans to the entrepreneurs by Banks/FIs.
Eligible Borrowers/Units :
Loans sanctioned to Micro and Small Enterprises (MSE) units, as per the definition of the Ministry of MSMEs engaged in all eligible activities including trading activity up to ₹10.00 crores.
Obtention of Udyam Registration Number is mandatory for obtaining Guarantee Cover.
Credit facilities not eligible under the Scheme :
(i) Any credit facility in respect of which risks are additionally covered under a scheme operated / administered by Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation or the Reserve Bank of India, to the extent they are so covered.
(ii) Any credit facility in respect of which risks are additionally covered by Government or by any general insurer or any other person or association of persons carrying on the business of insurance, guarantee or indemnity, to the extent they are so covered.
(iii) Any Credit facility shall not be eligible to covered under the Scheme if the said credit facility has been covered for guarantee through NCGTC Ltd.
(iv) Any credit facility, which does not conform to, or is in any way inconsistent with, the provisions of any law, or with any directives or instructions issued by the Central Government or the Reserve Bank of India, which may, for the time being, be in force.
(v) Any credit facility granted to any borrower, who has availed himself of any other credit facility covered under this scheme or under the schemes mentioned in clause (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above, and where the lending institution has invoked the guarantee provided by the Trust or under the schemes mentioned in clause (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above, but has not repaid any portion of the amount due to the Trust or under the schemes mentioned in clause (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above, as the case may be, by reason of any default on the part of the borrower in respect of that credit facility.
(vi) Any credit facility which has been sanctioned by the lending institution against collateral security and / or third party guarantee. However, after the introduction of Hybrid Security model, MLIs can cover the unsecured part of the credit facility(ies) under CGTMSE upto the overall exposure of ₹10.00 Crores.
Hybrid Security :
CGTMSE had also introduced in 2018 a new “Hybrid Security” product where the Banks/FIs are allowed to obtain collateral security for a part of the credit facility, whereas the remaining can be covered under CGTMSE upto a maximum of ₹ 10.00 crores.
Annual Guarantee Fee Structure :
Annual Guarantee Fee is to be payable upfront for First one year for commencement of guarantee and on an annual basis for continuation of Guarantee cover. Fee concession is available to select category of borrowers and units located at designated places and units having ZED Certification (Details are furnished in the Scheme Document of CGTMSE).
Guarantee Fee Structure
(w.e.f. 01.04.2025)
Slab
Revised Rate (excl. GST)
0-10 lacs
0.37%
Above 10 lacs to 50 lacs
0.55%
Above 50 lacs – 1 Cr
0.60%
Above 1 Crore - 2 Crores
0.85%
Above 2 Crores - 5 Crores
1.00%
Above 5 Crores - 8 Crores
1.10%
Above 8 Crores - 10 Crores
1.20%
Click for Scheme Document of
CGTMSE
for full details of the Scheme.
Last Updated On : Friday, 08-08-2025