Purpose
: Financing the business entities engaged in Agri (Food Processing), Allied Activities, Agri Infrastructure, Ancillary and Related activities. (viz Agri Commodity & Food Processor, Agri input manufacturer, Agri Exporters & FPOs)
Eligible Entities
For Agri based Enterprises and Individuals:
Individuals, Proprietorship, Partnership concerns, Private Limited Companies, LLPs, Corporates.
Newly proposed / Newly established units.
Profit making existing units
For FPOs
must be a legal entity registered with any of the following:
The State Cooperative Societies Act of respective state.
Mutually aided society act of respective state.
Multi State Cooperative Society Act 2002.
The FPCs registered under Companies Act 1956/2013.
Features
In case of a borrower having a corporate tie-up, Margin for Working capital Cash Credit
Type of Facility:
Cash Credit (CC), Term Loan (TL), Bank Guarantee (BG) and Letter of Credit (LC)
Additional Facilities for Agri Exporters:
Pre-shipment Export Credit/ Packing Credit: RPC/ Pre-shipment Credit in Foreign Currency – PCFC),
Post-shipment Export Credit: both in Foreign Currency (FCY) and Indian Rupees.
Bill Discounting (BD)
Quantum of Loan:
Minimum: ₹1 lakh
Maximum: ₹100 crores
Interest Rate
: Attractive Interest rate starting from EBR
Margin Term Loans
: 10% to 20% depending on the project cost and quantum of loan
Working capital Cash Credit:
Stocks: 20%, Book debts/Receivables: 40%
In case of a borrower having a corporate tie-up, Margin for Working capital Cash Credit:
Stocks: 10%; Book debts/Receivables: 20%
Repayment:
Maximum 10 years (including moratorium of maximum 24 months.)
Repayment Frequency
: Negotiated Repayment
For Cash Credit
: Tenure: 1 year
Repayable on demand
to be renewed annually
Documents Required
List is indicative only and may vary based on the projects
Loan Application along with Photographs
Income documents (ITR / Projected & Audited Financial Statements etc.)
Copies of licenses /permissions obtained for running the activity
Detailed Project Report
Quotations from approved suppliers for machines /equipment desired to be acquired. Plan of the proposed construction, duly approved by approved engineer.
Title Deeds
House / property tax payment receipts.
Memorandum & Articles of Association. (If applicable)
Resolution for borrowing sought (If applicable)
Any other document required/ prescribed by the Bank for such project/unit.
List is indicative only and may vary based on the projects.
Primary
:
Hypothecation of plant, machinery, stocks, receivables, etc. and other movable assets created out of Bank’s finance. Present and Future.
Collateral Security
:
NIL up to Rs. 10 Crores where credit Guarantee Cover is availed.
Without Credit Guarantee Cover:
NIL for Loans up to 2.0 lakhs.
For Loans above Rs 2.00 lakhs: Mortgage of SARFAESI Compliant property having market value not less than 40% of the limit sanctioned.
Insurance
Assets, created out of Bank’s finance must be comprehensively insured till the loan is repaid in full.
FAQs
For more details, please visit nearest SBI Branch.
Last Updated On : Thursday, 12-02-2026