Purpose:  
To provide timely and adequate credit to farmers to meet their production credit needs (Cultivation expenses) besides meeting contingency expenses and expenses related to ancillary activities through simplified procedure facilitating the borrowers for availing loans as and when they need.

Features:
Type of Facility: Revolving cash credit account. Credit balance in the account, if any, will fetch interest at Savings bank rate.
Quantum of Loan: Need Based finance considering cropping pattern, acreage and Scale of Finance (SOF) determined by DLTC (District Level Technical Committee)
Margin: Nil
Moratorium: NA
Repayment: The repayment period as per the crop period (Short/ Long) and marketing period for the crop.
Security:
Primary: Hypothecation of Crops grown / assets to be created out of Bank finance.
Collateral: Equitable mortgage / registered mortgage of land / immovable property as applicable of the value of 100 % loan. However, collateral is waived for KCC limit up to Rs. 2.00 lakhs and up to Rs.3.00 lakhs, in case of tie up arrangement
Interest Subvention: 3% p.a. interest subvention as Prompt Repayment Incentive (PRI) up to Rs. 3.00 lakhs
Other:
Tenure: 5 years, with 10% annual increase of limit every year, subject to annual review.
Rupay debit cards for all eligible KCC borrowers.
Insurance:
a. Eligible crops may be covered under PRADHAN MANTRI FASAL BIMA YOJNA (PMFBY) on premium paymen.
b. Borrower should also opt for Personal Accident Insurance, Health Insurance (wherever applicable)

Eligibility:
All farmers-individuals/Joint borrowers who are owner cultivators.
Tenant farmers, Oral lessees and Share croppers, etc,.
SHGs or Joint Liability Groups of farmers including tenant farmers, share croppers, etc,.

Documents Required:
Application Form.
Two Passport Size Photographs.
Proof of landholding duly certified by the revenue authorities.
Cropping pattern (Crops grown) with acreage.
Security documents for loan limit above Rs.2.00 lakhs / Rs.3.00 lakhs, as applicable.
Any other document as per sanction.
Interest Rate:
Up to Rs. 3.00 lakhs- 7% p.a. subject to GoI providing interest subvention. For interest subvention, submission of Aadhar details to Bank is mandatory (wherever applicable).
Above Rs.3.00 lakhs and below ₹ 50.00 Lakhs- 3.25% above 1-Year MCLR.
₹ 50.00 lakhs and above- Based on Credit Risk Assessment (CRA) rating.
Processing fee:
KCC Limits up to Rs.3.00 lakhs: NIL
Limits more than Rs.3.00 lakhs to Rs. 50.00 lakhs: 0.65% of loan limit
Limits more than Rs. 50.00 lakhs: Based on CRA rating in the range of 0.50 % to 1.00% of loan limit.
It is subject to change from time to time.
YONO Review:
Hassle free KCC review on through YONO App or at YONO Branch portal. The salient features of process are:

Contact less & paperless journey for application through YONO App.
E2E process on YONO Branch portal.
Standardization of KCC Review process.
Minimum data entry by farmer and branch
1. What are the credit components covered under KCC? 

To meet short term requirements for cultivation of crops
Post-harvest expenses
Consumption requirement of farmer household
Investment credit requirement for Agri and allied activities like farm machinery, etc. which is repayable within one year.
2. What is the minimum and maximum loan under KCC?

Minimum loan: No ceiling Maximum loan: No ceiling
It is need based considering cropping pattern, acreage and Scale of Finance (SOF)
For detailed and updated information, please contact our nearest Branch.

The application form :
 
 
The Branch Manager 
.......................... (Name of Bank) 
…………………… (Branch name) 
 
LOAN APPLICATION FORM FOR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT FOR PM-KISAN BENEFICIARIES 
 
A. For office use: 
Application S.No. Category SF MF Others 
     
 
B. Type of KCC/ Amount of loan required:  (Please tick (✓) the appropriate box)  
☐  Issue of fresh KCC      ☐  Enhancement of existing limit     ☐  Activation of inoperative KCC account      
Amount of Loan required  
 
C. Particulars of the applicant(s): 
Name of the Applicant  
Account No (PM Kisan Beneficiary*)  
If not covered under Pardhan Mantra 
Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and 
Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima 
Yojana (PMJJBY), consent for Auto 
Debit for coverage under these two 
schemes. 
Name of 
scheme 
Annual Premium Sum Assured 
 
Consent (Please tick (✓) the 
appropriate box) 
PMSBY Rs.12/- Rs.2 lakh ☐ Yes ☐ No 
PMJJBY Rs.330/- Rs. 2 Lakh ☐ Yes ☐ No 
Amount to be debited from PM-KISAN account :- Rs.12/- per annum for PMSBY and 
Rs.330/- per annum for PMJJBY 
     *The KYC and other details of the applicant will be accessed from this account  
 
D. Details of existing loans, if any: 
Bank/ Co-operative Banks/ 
Other Sources 
Branch Name Facility 
(KCC/ATL) 
Outstanding (Rs.) Overdues, if any (Rs.) 
     
 
E. Particulars of total land holdings of the applicant and crops: 
Name of the 
Village 
Survey/ Khasra 
No. 
Title Area in 
acres 
Name of crop to be Grown 
Owned Leased Share 
Cropper 
Kharif Crops Rabi Crops Other Crops 
         
 
F. KCC to Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Farmers: 
Name of Village 
 
Total productive Dairy Animals Total Sheep & Goat Total Pigs Total Poultry Others 
     
Inland Fisheries & Aquaculture Marine Fisheries & Mariculture 
  
 
G. Security Proposed to be offered: 
Particulars of Primary Security offered Particulars of Collateral Security (where applicable) 
  
 
H. Declaration: 
I/ We hereby declare that all information furnished by me/us is true, correct and complete to the best of my/our knowledge and belief. I/We 
hereby undertake to abide by the terms and conditions that the Bank may stipulate in sanction of this loan and inform Bank in the event of 
acquiring any other assets during the tenure of the advance. I/ We hereby declare that I/We have not availed KCC from any other bank branch. 
 
 
Signature/ Thumb impression of Borrowers 
Acknowledgement/ In-principle approval 
 
Received the loan application from Shri/Smt........................................................................................................................................................... 
residence of ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. 
on ............................................................... for the purpose of opening of KCC account. 
 
2. We convey our In-principle approval for the loan applied. The final sanction will be subject to the Bank’s field inspection, due 
diligence and terms and conditions as applicable for KCC loans. 
           
   
Date:                                                                    Signature of Officer 



How does a Kisan Credit Card work?
Most of the government schemes are targeted at meeting the bigger credit requirements of the farmers such as the cost of irrigation, buying equipment and machinery, etc. But a farmer also faces difficulty in meeting the day-to-day expenses of farming. Kisan Credit Card, by offering the cash credit facility, provides easy funds for such short-term requirements. Term loans are also offered with KCC to provide bigger financial assistance to the cardholders.

Many commercial banks, cooperative banks and Regional Rural Banks (RRB) offer Kisan Credit Cards. Like normal credit cards, KCC also comes with a preset credit limit. The bank sets the limit by taking into consideration the applicant’s landholding, future projections of the crops and the scale of finance that they seek. This limit can be increased later if the bank finds the cardholder to be a responsible borrower and if he seeks higher finance.

Under the Kisan Credit Card Scheme, two types of financial help can be taken-

Cash Credit- This works as a short-term source of finance for the bank. Cardholders can use the limit on their Kisan Credit Card for small agricultural needs and either pay it in full at a later date or convert it into EMIs. Using the KCC, the cardholder can withdraw funds for buying seeds, fertilizers, fuel for machinery, etc. They can also pay directly at the merchant POS terminal using the card.
Term Loan- Banks also offer term loans on Kisan Credit Cards to help the farmers meet bigger agricultural needs such as equipment purchase, irrigation cost, etc. The quantum of loan differs from bank to bank and so do the terms and conditions. Sometimes, the borrower may be required to pledge collateral for the loan.
How is a Kisan Credit Card beneficial for the farmers?
There are a number of benefits of Kisan Credit Card that help the farmers in several ways. It not only provides long-term and short-term credit to them but also lets them have easy access to funds without any hassle. Listed below are a few such advantages of Kisan Credit Cards-

Hassle-free Credit- Kisan Credit Card application process is easy and simple documentation is required. The borrower’s KYC documents will be needed only once for the prior approval. However, every crop season, when the farmer changes crops, documentation needs to be revised accordingly. The screening process is simple and quick and thus it is quite helpful for the farmers who are not well-versed with banking procedures.

Flexible Repayment- Kisan credit card offers a flexible repayment schedule to the farmers. Term loans have to be repaid in installments over the tenure of the loan and the credit card bills should be cleared as and when due. In case the crop goes bad due to a natural disaster or pest attack, the borrower has the option of rescheduling the payments by paying a minimal interest.

Revolving Credit Facility- Cardholders can also enjoy the revolving credit facility on Kisan Credit Cards which means that if they cannot afford to pay the bills on time, it will be added on to the next month’s statement. Interest will be charged on the unpaid amount.

Insurance- Kisan Credit Cardholders can get insurance under the National Crop Insurance Services for crop loans taken under the KCC Scheme. Users also get a personal accident insurance cover of up to ₹ 50,000 for death or permanent disability and up to ₹ 25,000 for other risks.

Broad Coverage- The Kisan Credit Card Scheme covers different types of farmers including owner-cultivators, sharecroppers, tenant farmers, oral lessees, Self Help Groups and Joint Liability Groups. In Budget 2018, the government has extended this service to animal husbandry, dairy farming and fisheries. To be eligible for the scheme, farmers should have a production credit of ₹ 5,000 or more.

How to Get a Kisan Credit Card?
Some banks allow you to apply for Kisan Credit Card online. You just need to visit the bank’s website and go to their agricultural banking section. Find the Kisan Credit Card and click on Apply Now. You will now be asked to enter some information or fill a detailed application form. Once you do so, the bank officials will give you a call and decide the right time and place for document collection. After you submit the relevant documents, the bank will validate the details and do some background research and, if satisfied, issue a Kisan Credit Card in your name. You would get a card cum passbook or a card and a passbook separately.

Since Kisan Credit Card is mostly sought by people from remote areas who are not comfortable using the internet, most of the banks extend this facility from their branches including those in the remote areas. You can visit the branch with all the relevant documents and complete the application at the branch itself. After a few days, the bank will communicate whether your application is approved or rejected. If approved, you will get the card delivered at your address in a few days. Sometimes, banks also send marketing officers in different villages to find people who may need this service. They take direct applications through these marketing officials.

What are the fees and charges associated with Kisan Credit Card?
Kisan Credit Card is an affordable means for the farmers to arrange funds for agricultural needs. The interest charged on KCC may differ from bank to bank. Usually, 7-9% interest is charged on the Kisan Credit Card for a credit limit of up to ₹ 3 Lakhs. Banks offer KCC Loans at subsidized rates of interest to those who have a good credit history. A minimal processing fee may be charged on the KCC loan along with some other charges such as insurance premium, land mortgage deed charges, collateral valuation charges, etc.

Kisan Credit Card Loan
As we have already discussed in the article, term loans are also offered under the Kisan Credit Card Scheme. These are commonly referred to as the Kisan Credit Card Loan. The loan proceeds can be used to cover bigger costs such as equipment purchase, seed and fertilizer purchase for new crop, etc. Some key features of Kisan Credit Card Loan are given below-

Loan Amount– A number of factors are taken into account by the lender before deciding the quantum of loan. Some of these factors are the size of farm, the crop being cultivated, how much income is estimated from the crop, borrower’s credit history and more. If, after a few years, the bank offers you a higher credit limit on the card, you may be eligible for a bigger loan on the card.

Collateral- You may be required to pledge an asset as collateral as per the bank’s requirements. RBI rolls out certain guidelines from time to time regarding Kisan Credit Cards but the conditions related to collateral depends on the lending bank. So, with one bank, you may be required to hypothecate your crops for mere ₹ 50,000 loan whereas another bank may offer you ₹ 1 Lakh loan on your Kisan Credit Card without any collateral. You must clear these before applying for a loan.

Repayment- The repayment period will also be set by the lender after taking into consideration the borrower’s repayment capacity. For short-term credit, the crop period may be considered as the loan tenure. However, in case of a long-term loan, a maximum tenure of 5 years may be allowed.

Kisan Credit Cards have come to help the farmers in various ways but, most importantly, they offer financial convenience. Arranging funds for even the smallest of requirements would mean much hassle for the farmer and also entail high rates of interest. With a Kisan Credit Card scheme, they can meet the short-term as well as medium-term financial needs at low rates of interest.

Features and Benefits of an SBI Kisan Credit Card
Credit Limit
SBI will determine the short term credit limit for the first year based on the crops grown according to the quantum of finance and cropping pattern projected. The credit limit would also cover household expenses, farm and farm asset maintenance costs, crop insurance, asset insurance, personal accident insurance and post-harvest requirements. State Bank of India will revise the limit every year and there will be an increase by 10%.

The Kisan Credit Card limit will also include any amount required for investments made on the farm like purchasing implements or equipment for crop production and the borrower has to repay this amount within one year. This investment portion will not have an annual review, but will be considered when the withdrawal limit is being set by the bank. The Maximum Permissible Limit (MPL) sanctioned on the Kisan Credit Card will be the short-term loan limit derived for the fifth year inclusive of the investment loan amount.

The Maximum Drawal Limit (MDL) sanctioned on the Kisan Credit Card will be the short term loan limit derived for the first year or a sum of the limit from the second to the fifth year including the investment loan amount. The credit under the Kisan Credit Card will be in the form of revolving credit and the balance in an account will get the holder interest as per Savings bank rates.

Types of SBI Kisan Credit Cards
Kisan Credit Card customers will receive a Debit Card/ATM card - State Bank Kisan Card, for making withdrawals from their KCC accounts at POS and ATM machines.

Processing Fees
State Bank of India will waive the processing fees for loans taken for an amount up to Rs. 3 lakhs.

Security
Security does not have to be given for credit limits up to Rs. 1 lakh and for limits up to Rs. 3 lakhs, if there is a tie-up arrangement made for recovering the loan.

Annual Renewal
Every Kisan credit card account has to be renewed every year before the due date to get the assigned credit limit. This renewal has to be done for the entire period of five years. The customer has to give a revival letter or a declaration to State Bank of India before the expiry date. When the renewal happens, the revision of the Maximum Drawal limit will be assessed according to the projected cropping pattern and the area confirmed by the borrower.

Insurance
State Bank of India will also provide crop insurance for all eligible crops as per the National Agricultural Insurance Scheme.

Loan Disbursement
The loan will be disbursed by SBI as cash, according to the cultivation needs of the crop grown.

Repayment
Repayments for single Kharif crop loans have to be done by 31st January.
Repayments for single Rabi crop loans have to be done by 31st July.
Repayments for multiple Rabi /Kharif/double crop loans have to be done within 31st July.
Repayments for long-term crop loans can be done throughout the year, from the disbursement date.
Borrowers making repayments have to ensure that the amount is directed into their Kisan Credit Card accounts. The amount that has to repaid should be the minimum loan amount with interest and other applicable charges, before the due date.

Farmers wishing to apply for the Kisan Credit Card can easily do so by visiting the nearest SBI rural branch or contact the marketing officer visiting the concerned village.

SBI's YONO App Will Soon be Available to Farmers

SBI YONO mobile app, which is a combined platform for lifestyle and banking service, will soon be available for farmers and businessmen, announced the 2nd largest card issuer in India.

With the eye-catchy tag line, ‘You Only Need One’, the app has been reportedly popular among youngsters. Since its launch in 2017, about 61 lakh users have been registered and it currently witnesses about 3 lakh logins on daily basis.

The new services in the YONO app for farmers, businessmen and frequent travelers will be launched in April in 6 vernacular languages, said SBI Chairman, Rajnish Kumar.

For farmers, the ‘YONO Farmer’ service will provide agriculture-related services such as the information related to seeds, climate or weather information, Kisan Credit Card facility, gold loans and online market information.

Businessmen would see all their needs and requirements under one card or services and for NRIs and globetrotters the structure is being mapped, added the Chairman.

What is the SBI Kisan Gold Credit Card?
The loan given through the Kisan Gold Card can be used for buying farm assets, constructing assets, purchasing land, building farm houses or for purchasing tractors and other accessories.

Loan Amount
The loan amount that is sanctioned by State Bank of India is five times the yearly farm income or 50% of the mortgaged land value, which has been submitted as collateral security. Depending on whichever is lesser, the maximum amount sanctioned will be Rs. 10 lakhs. While mortgaging the land, borrowers have to submit documents like encumbrance certificates, land records, etc.

Security
For loan amounts taken for up to Rs. 1 lakh, hypothecation of the assets that have been created is required. For loan amounts taken above Rs. 1 lakh, hypothecation of the assets, land mortgage, charge on land or any other reliable security is required.

Repayment
Borrowers can do repayments as yearly, quarterly or half-yearly installments, based on the crop harvest or other agricultural conditions within a period of six to seven years. Credit taken for establishing horticultural orchards can be repaid within nine years from the sanction date.

Farmers wishing to apply for the Kisan Gold Card can easily do so by visiting the nearest SBI rural branch or contact the marketing officer visiting the concerned village

Interest Rates for SBI Kisan Credit Card
Up to Rs.3 lakh – 7%
Above Rs.3 lakh - As applicable from time to time
How to Apply for SBI Kisan Credit Card Online
Farmers can now review their Kisan Credit Card accounts using the SBI online portal without visiting a bank branch.
You have to download the SBI YONO app and log into the portal.
Then, go to YONO Krishi and then click on 'Khata'.
Then, go to KCC Review section, and then click on 'Apply'.
Eligibility Criteria for SBI Kisan Credit Card
Kisan Credit Card:

Farmers can apply for the Kisan Credit Card scheme as a single applicant or as joint applicants with co-borrowers who are owner cultivators. Other type applicants eligible for this credit card scheme are share croppers, oral lessees, tenant farmers, SHGs and Joint Liability Groups of farmers.

Kisan Gold Card:

Farmers who have had impeccable repayment patterns for the past two years, reliable borrowers from other banks, new applicant farmers holding deposits for atleast two years with SBI and old customers who have closed their accounts with SBI can apply for the Kisan Credit Card.

Other Agricultural Banking Products Offered by SBI
Arthiyas Plus Scheme
Broiler Plus
Business Correspondent (BC) Arrangement
Capital Investment Subsidy Scheme for Commercial Production Units of Organic inputs Under National Project on Organic Farming
Dairy Plus Scheme For Financing Dairy Units
Dairy Society Plus Scheme for Financing Dairy Societies
Finance To Horticulture
Financing For Combine Harvesters
Financing For Organic Farming
Financing JLG of Tenant Farmers
Financing JLG of Tenant Farmers
Financing of Second Hand / Used Tractors Scheme
Financing Power Tillers
Gramin Bhandaran Yojna Capital Investment Subsidy Scheme for Construction / Renovation of Rural Godowns
Kisan Gold Card Scheme (KGC)
Krishi Kalyan
Land Purchase Scheme
Lead Bank Scheme
Minor Irrigation Schemes
Mortgage Loan To Seed Processing Units
New Tractor Loan Scheme
Produce Marketing Loan
Rural Self Employment Training Institutes (RSETIs)
Sanjeevani
Sbi Krishak Uthaan Yojna
Scheme For Debt Swapping of Borrowers
Scheme For Financing Farm Machinery Where Tangible Assets are Created
Scheme For Financing Micro Finance Institutions (MFIs) / Non-Government Organisation (NGOs)
Scheme For Financing Private Cold Storage / Private Ware Houses for On lending to Farmers
Scheme For Financing Seed Processors
Scheme To Cover Loans For General Purpose Under General Credit Card (GCC)
Scoring Model For Tractor Loans
Setting up of Agri Clinic and Agri Business Centres
Stree Shakti Tractor Loan (SSTL)
FAQs on SBI Kisan Credit Card
Can SBI Kisan credit card holders get additional insurance cover when they enroll under the scheme?
Yes, along with the Kisan credit card, SBI also offers personal accident insurance, asset insurance and crop insurance.

Does SBI have exclusive rural branches to address the needs of branches?
Yes, State Bank of India has 428 Specialized Agricultural Development Branches along with 18 Agri Commercial Branches to offer credit facilities to farmers for crop production.

Can customers check the status of their SBI Kisan credit card application online?
Yes, customers can easily check the status of their Kisan credit card applications on the SBI website.

Can a farmer get SBI credit card?
Farmers may apply alone or together with co-borrowers who are owner cultivators for the Kisan Credit Card programme.

What are the types of crops that will be covered under the crop insurance offered?
The crop insurance will cover all types of eligible crops cultivated by the farmer.

What if KCC loan is not paid?
If the principal or interest payment is not made for two crop seasons, the loan for short-term crops is considered a non-performing asset (NPA).

How is the SBI KCC limit calculated?
Scale of finance for the crop (as decided by District Level Technical Committee) x Extent of area cultivated + 10% of limit towards post-harvest / household / consumption requirements + 20% of limit towards repairs and maintenance expenses of farm assets + crop insurance, PAIS & asset insurance.

How can I activate my SBI Kisan debit card?
You need to go to e-Services > ATM Card Services > New ATM Card Activation to activate the card.

Who is not eligible for kisan credit facility?
Individuals less than 18 years of age and more than 75 years are not eligible for Kisan credit facility. Applicants for Kisan credit cards who are of 60 years of age or more should mandatorily produce co-borrowers who are legal heirs or immediate kin.

What is the limit of Kisan Credit Card?
Based on the land holding and crops grown including the storage, farm expenses and consumption needs, a flexible limit ranging between Rs.10,000 to Rs.50,000 is provided to the beneficiaries as Flexi KCC.

What is Kisan Credit Card validity?
Kisan credit card is valid for five years with extendable validity of three years.

Can we use Kisan credit card in ATM?
Kisan credit cards provide time-based financial support to the farmers for both farming and non-farming needs. These cards provide assistance to the farmers through several ways by allowing cash withdrawals from ATMs, transactions on e-commerce, and at PoS.

What security will I give the bank to secure the loan?
For loans up to Rs.1.60 lakh SBI does not ask for security, but the same might not be the case if the loan amount exceeds Rs.1.60 lakh. The requirement of security is finally decided upon by the bank depending upon the following scenarios: hypothecation of crops sown using the loan amount and the hypothecation of the machinery bought using the amount.

How can I check my SBI Kisan Credit Card account balance?
To check the details of the loan taken against SBI Kisan credit card, customers can login into their SBI account to check the details. Customers can also contact SBI customer care to check the details by calling the toll-free numbers, which are 1800 11 2211 and 1800 425 3800.

What happens if repayment is not done within the due date?
If the repayment is not done within the due date, then the interest will be applicable as per the card rate which will further get compounded in every six months.

What happens if Kisan credit card holder dies?
Kisan credit cards provides personal accident coverage up to Rs.50,000 for permanent disability as well as during sudden demise of the cardholder or the farmer. Coverage of Rs.25,000 is also provided for other risk and farmers can also avail themselves of a loan up to Rs.1 lakh without any collateral.