Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures
1. SBI LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (SBI-LIFE)
SBI Life Insurance, one of the most trusted life insurance companies in India, was incorporated in October 2000 and was registered with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) in March 2001. Serving millions of families across India, SBI Life’s diverse range of products caters to individuals as well as group customers through Protection, Pension, Savings and Health solutions. Driven by ‘Customer-First’ approach, SBI Life places great emphasis on maintaining world class operating efficiency and providing hassle-free claim settlement experience to its customers by following high ethical standards of service. Additionally, SBI Life is committed to enhance digital experiences for its customers, distributors, and employees alike. For more information, please visit:
www.sbilife.co.in
2. SBI GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (SBI GENERAL)
SBI General Insurance, one of the fastest-growing private general insurance firms, backed by the robust support of SBI upholds a legacy of trust and security. We position ourselves as India's most trusted general insurer amidst a dynamic landscape. Since our establishment in 2009, our expansion has been substantial, growing from 17 branches in 2011 to a nationwide presence of over 144 branches. In FY 2023-24, SBI General Insurance achieved significant growth, with a notable 17% increase in Gross Written Premium (GWP), reaching INR 12,731 crores.
With a team of 8,000+ employees and our multi-distribution model covering Bancassurance, Agency, Broking, Retail Direct Channels, and Digital collaborations, we are committed to providing both Suraksha and Bharosa to all our consumers. Leveraging a vast network of over 22,518+ that includes, SBI branches, agents, financial alliances, OEMs, and digital partners, we extend our services to even the most remote areas of India. Our offerings cater to Retail, Corporate, SME and Rural segments, and our diverse product portfolio ensures accessibility through both digital and physical channels.
For more information, please visit:
www.sbigeneral.in
3. SBI CARDS AND PAYMENT SERVICES LIMITED (SBICPSL)
SBI Cards and Payment Services Limited (SBICPSL) is a subsidiary of State Bank of India. SBI Cards and Payment Services Limited (“SBI Card”) is a non-banking financial company and is India’s largest pure play credit card issuer with a base of over 20 million cards in force, as of December 2024. SBI Card offers extensive credit card portfolio to individual cardholders and corporate clients which includes lifestyle, rewards, travel & fuel and banking partnership cards along with corporate cards, covering all major cardholders’ segments in terms of income profile and lifestyle. The company has diversified customer acquisition network that enables it to engage prospective customers across multiple channels.
For more information, please visit :
https://www.sbicard.com
4. SBI FUNDS MANAGEMENT LIMITED(SBIFML)
With over 37 years of extensive experience, SBI Funds Management Limited (SBIFML) leverages its expertise to consistently deliver value to investors. As a subsidiary of the State Bank of India (SBI), the banker to every Indian, and in partnership with AMUNDI (France), a global leader in fund management, we offer a comprehensive range of asset management solutions. Our services include offerings across Mutual Funds, Portfolio Management Services, Offshore Funds, Alternative Investment Funds, and GIFT City, all designed to help our diverse investor base achieve their financial goals
For more information, please visit
www.sbimf.com
5. SBI CAPITAL MARKETS LIMITED ( SBICAPS)
SBICAPS is India’s leading investment banker, offering a bouquet of investment banking and corporate advisory services to diversified clients across three product groups - Project Advisory and Structured Finance, Equity Capital Markets and Debt Capital Markets. These services include Project Advisory, Loan Syndication, Structured Debt Placement, Mergers and Acquisitions, Private Equity, Restructuring Advisory, ESG Advisory, Stressed Assets Resolution, IPO, FPO, Rights Issues, Debt, Hybrid Capital raising, InvIT advisory, REIT advisory and COC advisory (Committee of Creditors).
For more information, please visit
www.sbicaps.com
6. SBICAP Securities Ltd (SSL)
SSL, a wholly owned subsidiary of SBI Capital Markets Ltd, is the retail broking arm of the SBI Group. SSL offers its customers a variety of products and services to choose from – such as Equity, Derivatives, Mutual Funds, Insurance Products, Corporate FDs etc. through state of art trading platform on mobile app, website and through dealer terminal. SSL is also a captive sourcing arm of the State Bank of India for sourcing Home Loan and Auto Loan business.
For more information please visit
www.sbisecurities.in
7. SBI Ventures Limited (SVL)
SBI Ventures Limited (formerly known as SBICAP Ventures Limited ) is the State Bank of India’s Alternative Investment management arm, managing category I and II Alternate Investment Funds (AIF) and is one of India’s fastest-growing asset managers. Set up in 2005, SVL was a wholly owned subsidiary of SBI Capital Markets Limited. Since February 2024, SVL has become the wholly owned subsidiary of the State Bank of India.
SVL currently manages 3 Alternate Investment Funds (AIF) with aggregate committed capital of INR 17,000 crores. SVL has a successful track record of investing pan-India in stressed residential real estate and MSME sector including renewable energy, waste management and climate related investments
SVL is also fund manager to three Fund of Funds with a corpus of INR 13,000 crores with principal focus on MSME sector. Some of the marquee investors in the funds managed by SVL are the Government of India, LIC and major global investment funds and institutions that include the Foreign Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) of the UK Government, the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).
For more information, please visit
https://sbicapventures.com/
8. SBICAP TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED (STCL)
STCL is a wholly owned subsidiary of SBI Capital Markets Limited (SBICAP) which in turn is a wholly owned subsidiary of State Bank of India (SBI).
STCL is registered with Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to act as a Debenture Trustee. It offers a whole bouquet of services viz. Security Trusteeship, Debenture Trusteeship, Alternate Investment Fund Trusteeship, Share Pledge Trusteeship, Escrow Trusteeship, Facilitator for the execution of Will, Safe Keeper, Virtual Data Room Services, Facility Agent, etc
It is guided by the principle of Long-Term Relationship, Fairness & Transparency in all transactions and Customer Delight. Customer Satisfaction is our main motto which is achieved with Professional Competence and leveraging digital technology.
For more information, please visit
www.sbicaptrustee.com
9. SBI SG GLOBAL SECURITIES SERVICES PRIVATE LIMITED (SBI-SG)
SBI-SG is a joint venture between State Bank of India (SBI) and Société Générale (SG), with SBI holding a 65% stake. The company was established to provide high-quality custodial and fund accounting services to both domestic and foreign institutional investors, complemented by SBI’s suite of premier banking services. SBI-SG commenced commercial operations in 2010 and has since become a leading provider of best-in-class custodial and fund accounting services to a diverse range of fund structures and asset owners, including Mutual Funds, AIFs, Trusts, PMS, Insurance Funds, FPIs, FDIs, and FVCIs. It ranks among the top custodians and is one of the top two in domestic fund accounting services in India. SBI-SG is ISO 9001 and ISO 27001 certified and has received widespread acclaim for its services.
For more information, please visit
www.sbisgcsl.co.in
10. SBI DFHI LIMITED (SBI DFHI)
SBI DFHI Limited is one of the largest standalone Primary Dealers (PD) with a pan India presence. As a Primary Dealer (PD) it is mandated to support the book building process in primary auctions and provide depth and liquidity to secondary markets in G-Sec. Besides Government securities, it also deals in money market instruments, non-G-Sec debt instruments, amongst others. As a PD, its business activities are regulated by RBI.
For more information, please visit
www.sbidfhi.com
11. SBI Payment Services Pvt Ltd. (SBI Payments)
SBI Payment Services Pvt. Ltd. (SBI Payments) SBI became the first public sector bank to form an exclusive Joint Venture hitachi for merchant acquiring business and holds 74% stake in the company. Having presence across India SBI Payments is one of the largest acquirers of the country. The objective is to create a state-of-the-art acceptance ecosystem in all geographies of the country and enable the merchants to accept payments digitally through various form factors such as PoS, Soundbox, QR BHIM-Aadhaar, NETC, Yono SBI Merchant Application, etc
For more information, please visit:
https://www.sbipayments.com/
12. SBI FACTORS LIMITED (SBIGFL)
SBI Factors is a leading provider of factoring services for domestic and international trade. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of State Bank of India. The Company’s services are especially suitable for MSME clients for freeing up resources locked in book debts. The Company is actively participating in bidding on the TReDS platforms. By virtue of its membership in Factors Chain International (FCI), the Company can ameliorate credit risk from export receivables under the 2-factor model
For more information, please visit
https://www.sbiglobal.in
13. SBIPENSION FUNDS PRIVATE LIMITED
SBIPFPL has been appointed as the Pension Fund Manager (PFM) along with 10 (Ten) others to manage the pension corpus under National Pension System (NPS). SBIPFPL is one of the 3 (three) PFMs appointed by the Pension Fund Regulatory & Development Authority (PFRDA) for management of Pension Funds under the NPS for Government Sector schemes and one of the 11 (Eleven) PFMs appointed for management of Pension Funds under the Private Sector.
For more information, please visit
http://www.sbipensionfunds.com
14. STATE BANK OPERATIONS SUPPORT SERVICES PVT. LTD. (SBOSS)
State Bank Operations Support Services Pvt Ltd (SBOSS) is a wholly owned subsidiary of SBI set up in July 2022 , for providing operations support services at RUSU branches of SBI. The company has its Registered Office at New Delhi.
State Bank Operations Support Services Pvt Ltd (SBOSS) is a wholly owned subsidiary of SBI set up in July 2022, for providing operations support services at RUSU branches of SBI. The company has its Registered Office at New Delhi. The company has developed a robust Pan India “High Tech”, “High Touch” and “Low Cost” model for providing multidimensional support to operations in Agri, SME and Anytime Channel. It has adopted appropriate technologies to provide doorstep services to customers / borrowers of the Bank in RUSU areas. It facilitates greater Financial Inclusion through appropriate credit linkages for meeting our national development goals.
For more information, please visit
http://www.sboss.net.in
15. SBI FOUNDATION
SBI Foundation is a section 8 company, registered under the Companies Act, 2013. SBI Foundation was established by State Bank of India in 2015 to undertake Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives on behalf of State Bank Group in a focused and strategic manner. SBI Foundation is working on projects located across all 28 States and 8 Union Territories of India, undertaking CSR initiatives to make resources available to the most vulnerable and underprivileged sections of the society.
For more information, please visit
https://www.sbifoundation.in/
Foreign Subsidiaries/joint ventures
SBI Canada Bank
SBI Canada Bank
SBI Canada Bank (SBIC) was established in 1982 as a wholly owned subsidiary of State Bank of India.
The Bank is active in both Corporate and Retail Business and provides full-service banking to meet the needs of its retail, commercial and corporate customers, including accounts, credit cards, mortgages, loans, remittances and more in Canada.
The Bank operates six full service branches and one extension counter with head office located in Toronto.
Further details of the bank can be accessed at
https://ca.statebank
State Bank of India (California) (SBICAL)
State Bank of India (California) (SBICAL)
State Bank of India (California) was established in 1982 as a wholly owned subsidiary of State Bank of India.
Bank is active in both Corporate and Retail Business.
State Bank of India (California) is a full-service financial institution, offering an extensive portfolio of lending solutions as well as comprehensive consumer, business, and international services.
The Bank operates seven full service branches throughout California with its headquarters located in Downtown Los Angeles.
Further details of the bank can be accessed at
https://www.sbical.com
SBI (Mauritius) Ltd
SBI (Mauritius) Ltd:
SBI (Mauritius) Ltd started operation in Mauritius in 1989 as SBI (International) Mauritius Ltd. The main focus was on Global Banking Business.
In 2005, the Bank entered into local business by acquiring Indian Ocean International Bank (IOIB) Ltd.
State Bank of India is having 96.60% shareholding in SBI (Mauritius) Ltd
The Bank operates in both offshore as well as domestic sector offering products and services in Global, Corporate, Retail and Personal Segment.
SBI (Mauritius) Ltd is having 14 fully integrated Branches and 19 ATMs across the length and breadth of the country.
Further details of the bank can be accessed at
https://mu.statebank
State Bank of India (UK) Ltd
State Bank of India (UK) Ltd
SBI (UK) Ltd was established in 2018 as wholly owned subsidiary of State Bank of India.
The bank is having 12 branches across the UK.
SBI (UK) Ltd is primarily a retail focused Subsidiary and its products and services include – Commercial Lending, Buy to let Mortgages, Cash ISA’s, Safe Deposit Lockers, Instant Access Savings Account, Business Account and Fixed Deposits
Further details of SBI (UK) Ltd can be accessed at
https://sbiuk.statebank
Nepal SBI Bank Ltd.
Nepal SBI Bank Ltd.
Nepal SBI Bank Ltd was established in 1993 as subsidiary of State Bank of India with stake of 55% in partnership with EPF of Nepal who have a stake of 15% in the Subsidiary.
The bank is having an extensive network of branches and ATMs spread across the Nepal.
Nepal SBI Bank Ltd has presence in varied business segments like Retail, SME, Project Finance etc.
Further details of Nepal SBI Bank Ltd can be accessed at
https://nsbl.statebank
PT Bank SBI Indonesia
PT Bank SBI Indonesia
SBI entered Indonesia in 2007 by acquiring 76% stake in PT Bank Indo Monex and the Subsidiary was renamed as PT Bank SBI Indonesia.
The stake was gradually increased to 99% by 2015.
The Bank is presently a BUKU II Category Bank with business spread across Corporate, Retail SME and Trade Finance.
SBI Indonesia is having a network of 10 Branches and 10 ATMs across Indonesia.
Further details of the bank can be accessed at
www.sbiindo.com
Commercial Indo Bank LLC
Commercial Indo Bank LLC
Commercial Indo Bank LLC (CIBL), Moscow, came into existence in 2003 as Commercial Bank of India LLC (CBIL) as JV of SBI & Canara Bank (60:40) by converting respective Representative Offices into a full-fledged Bank.
The Bank was renamed as Commercial Indo Bank LLC (CIBL) in 2014
CIBL has license for “Corporate Banking” and has been functioning as one Branch Bank.
SBI has completed the purchase of 40% stake in Commercial Indo Bank LLC from Canara Bank.
Commercial Indo Bank LLC, Moscow is now a wholly owned subsidiary of SBI.
Further details of the bank can be accessed at
http://cibl.ru
Bank of Bhutan Limited (BoBL)
Bank of Bhutan Limited (BoBL)
Bank of Bhutan Ltd (BoBL) was established in 1968 by a Royal Charter issued by the Royal Government of Bhutan (RGOB).
It also acted as the Central Bank of Bhutan till establishment of the Royal Monetary Authority of Bhutan in 1982.
BoBL is the largest commercial bank in Bhutan and having 47 branches across the country.
SBI is holding 20% shares in the Bank
BoBL provides a range of financial products and services, such as deposits, loans, trade finance, credit cards and e-payment gateway services
Further details of the bank can be accessed at
https://www.bob.bt
Last Updated On : Friday, 06-06-2025