Common for All Salary Packages
1. What is a Salary Package Account?
Salary Package account is a special Savings Account offered to salaried customers which provide unique benefits and services, as well as seamless access to the most advanced and secure Net Banking and Mobile Banking services.
2. What are the benefits of Salary Package Account?
Each Salary Package account offers unique benefits and services to the customers. Here are a few benefits available on our Salary Package Account:
Zero Balance Account
No Monthly Average Balance charges
Auto Sweep Facility (Optional)
Free Debit Card with exclusive benefits
Unlimited number of transactions across SBI / Other Banks’ ATMs in India
Waiver of issuance charges on Demand Draft
Waiver of issuance charges of Multi City Cheques up to 25 cheque leaves per month
Waiver of online RTGS / NEFT Charges
Complimentary Personal/ Air Accidental Insurance cover
Competitive Interest Rates on Personal Loans, Car Loans and Home Loans.
Overdraft facility as per eligibility
Concession on annual locker rental Charges as per eligibility
Wealth Relationship as per eligibility
3. What are the different types of Salary Account Packages being offered by SBI?
SBI offers an entire range of Salary Account Packages crafted to suit the needs of varied sectors as under:
Central Government Salary Package (CGSP)
State Government Salary Package (SGSP)
Railway Salary Package (RSP)
Defence Salary Package (DSP)
Central Armed Police Salary Package (CAPSP)
Police Salary Package (PSP)
Indian Coast Guard Salary Package (ICGSP)
Corporate Salary Package (CSP)
Start-up Salary Package Account (SUSP)
4. How can I open a Salary Package Account with SBI?
A salaried person can approach SBI in any of the following ways:
May open Salary Package Account on YONO Application through Video – Customer Identification Process without physical visit at Branch.
Walk to the nearest SBI Branch.
5. What are the documents required for opening a salary account?
The following documents are needed:
Passport size photograph
Copy of PAN Card
Proof of Identity and Address (Officially Valid Documents) as prescribed by RBI
Proof of Employment / Service Certificate
Latest Salary slip
Joint Accounts: For joint accounts, the Proof of Identity & Proof of Address (Officially Valid Documents) are required for both the applicant as well as the joint applicant(s).
6. I already have an existing savings account with SBI. Can it be converted to Salary Account?
Yes. Existing saving account with SBI can also be converted to Salary Package account on submission of application, Employment proof, Salary Slip / Service Certificate.
7. How do I get my account transferred from one Branch of State Bank to another?
Our Core Banking facility allows you to continue with the same account at all our Branches. However for transfer of an account, you need to submit an application/ request letter to your home branch or get your Account transferred through Internet Banking / YONO.
8. What happens to my existing Salary Package Account if there are no Salary Credits to the account?
In case, monthly salary is not credited into the account for more than 3 consecutive months, the special features offered under Salary Package will stand withdrawn and the account shall be treated as Normal Savings Account without information and all charges shall be levied and applied as applicable to normal savings accounts.
9. What is Auto Sweep Facility?
This is a facility to transfer your money to MoD (Fixed deposit account) from Savings account to earn higher interest once your balance in the SB account reaches the threshold balance of Rs. 35000/-. If the balance in the account is not sufficient to honour a cheque/ ATM withdrawal, the system automatically pre closes the fixed deposit/ or part of it and credits the same to your SB account.
10. What is the concession available to Salary Package Customer for availing Locker facility?
Maximum up to 50% concession on annual locker rental as per eligibility of variant of Salary Package
11. What is the total number of free draft available for Salary Package Customer Per month?
A Salary Package customer gets Drafts issued without issuance charges. There is no limit on number and amount of drafts per month.
12. What is the total number of free ATM transactions at SBI ATMs available for Salary Package Customer Per month?
A Salary Package customer gets unlimited number of free ATM transactions at SBG ATMs per month within India.
13. What is the total number of free ATM transactions at other Banks’ ATMs available for Salary Package customer per month?
A Salary Package customer can avail unlimited free number of ATM transactions at other Banks’ ATMs per month within India.
14. What are the NEFT/ RTGS charges applicable for Salary Package customer?
Free to all Salary Package customers through digital channel
15. Can a Debit Card be issued for joint account holder ?
Yes. Parent / spouse may be issued free of cost Debit Card as joint account holder under Salary Package.
16. Is National Pension System (NPS) available for Salary Package customers?
National Pension System (NPS) facility is available for all Salary Package customers. Remittance can be made by deposit of cash at any SBI branch or by transfer through Internet Banking. For more details, please contact your branch.
17. Is Public Provident Fund (PPF) available for Salary Package customers?
Public Provident fund (PPF) is available for all Salary Package customers. Remittance can be made by deposit of cash at any SBI branch or by transfer through Internet Banking. For more details, please contact your branch.
18. What is Family savings Account “SBI Rishtey”?
Salary Package Customers of SBI can open their family member Savings Bank accounts with differentiated features from Regular Savings Bank Account under “SBI Rishtey”.
19. Who can open Family savings account “SBI Rishtey”?
Gold and above variants Salary Package Customers can open family savings accounts for his/her Parents, Spouse, Children and Siblings. Maximum four individual account can be linked as family savings account.
20. What are the benefits of Family Savings Account “SBI Rishtey”?
Following benefits are available under Family Savings accounts “SBI Rishtey”
a) Minimum Balance requirement waived
b) No issuance charge for Debit card
c) Demand Draft issuance charges waived
d) Auto sweep facility available
21. Is upgradation from one variant to another variant possible?
Yes. On production of proof of net increase in salary per month/ elevation in rank, which makes him/her eligible for higher variant of the account, the branch will upgrade the account to the eligible variant e.g. from Gold to Diamond or Diamond to Platinum or Platinum to Rhodium etc.
22. Is there any insurance coverage for customer having Salary Package Account with SBI?
Complimentary Personal Accident Insurance (PAI) and Air Accident Insurance (AAI) cover is provided to our Salary Package Account holders. Maximum coverage amount depends upon the type & variant of the Salary Package account.
23. What is Microsite?
Microsite is a customised web page, where benefits associated to particular Corporates / Organisation / Institution is available. This may be accessed through Internet. Link for various services including loans are available through Microsite.
Defence Salary Package (DSP), Central Armed Police Salary Package (CAPSP) and Indian Coast Guard Salary Package (ICGSP)
24. Who are eligible for Defence Salary Package (DSP)?
DSP account is offered to serving personnel of Indian Army, Indian Air Force, Indian Navy, Assam Rifles, Rashtriya Rifles, Special Frontier Force, General Reserve Engineer Force (GREF) and Border Roads Organization.
25. Who are eligible for Defence Salary Package – Pension Account?
DSP-Pension account is offered to Pensioners of Indian Army, Indian Air Force, Indian Navy, Assam Rifles, Rashtriya Rifles, Special Frontier Force, General Reserve Engineer Force (GREF) and Border Roads Organization.
26. Who are eligible for Defence Salary Package – Agniveer Account?
Agniveers of Indian Army, Indian Navy and Indian Air Force are eligible for opening account under Defence Salary Package – Agniveer.
27. Who are eligible Central Armed Police Force Salary package (CAPSP)?”
CAPSP account is offered to serving personnel / Pensioners of Central Armed Police Forces viz., Border Security Force (BSF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Security Guard (NSG) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). Personnel of Railway Protection Force (RPF)/ Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF), Intelligence Bureau, Special Force under Cabinet Secretariat.
28. Who are eligible for Indian Coast Guard Salary Package (ICGSP)?
ICGSP account is offered to personnel of the Indian Coast Guard, who have their Salary/Pension accounts with SBI.
29. What are the variants of accounts available to DSP customer ?
Four variants, namely Agniveer, Gold, Diamond and Platinum are available, depending on the rank of the Serving Personnel / rank at the time of retirement of Pensioners. In case of Intelligence Bureau and Special Force under Cabinet Secretariat employees’ net monthly salary credit is the criteria for classification of variants. These variants have different facilities on offer.
30. What are the variants of accounts available to CAPSP and ICGSP customer ?
Three variants, namely Gold, Diamond and Platinum are available, depending on the rank of the Serving Personnel / rank at the time of retirement of Pensioners. In case of Intelligence Bureau and Special Force under Cabinet Secretariat employees’ net monthly salary credit is the criteria for classification of variants. These variants have different facilities on offer.
31. What is criteria for categorisation of variant in DSP(other than Agniveers), CAPSP (other than IB and Special Force under Cabinet Secretariat) and ICGSP Account ?
Gold: Up to JCO ranks in Army or equivalent in other Forces Diamond: From Lieutenant to Major rank in Army and equivalent in other Forces Platinum: From Lt Colonel and above in Army and equivalent in other Forces
32. What is criteria for categorisation of variant in CAPSP for Intelligence Bureau and Special Force under Cabinet Secretariat ?
Gold : Net monthly Salary credit from Rs. 25,001 to Rs. 50,000 Dimond : Net monthly Salary credit from Rs. 50,001 to Rs. 1,00,000 Platinum : Net monthly Salary credit above Rs. 1,00,000
33. What is criteria for categorisation of variant in DSP-Pension (other than Agniveers), CAPSP-Pension (other than IB and Special Force under Cabinet Secretariat ) and ICGSP-Pension Account ?
Gold : Up to JCO ranks at the time of retirement in Army or equivalent in other Forces Diamond : From Lieutenant to Major rank at the time of retirement in Army and equivalent in other Forces Platinum : From Lt Colonel and above at the time of retirement in Army and equivalent in other Forces
34. What is criteria for categorisation of variant in CAPSP-Pension for Intelligence Bureau and Special Force under Cabinet Secretariat ?
Gold : Net monthly Pension credit from Rs. 25,001 to Rs. 50,000 Dimond : Net monthly Pension credit from Rs. 50,001 to Rs. 1,00,000 Platinum : Net monthly Pension credit above Rs. 1,00,000
35. What is the amount of Personal Accidental (Death) Insurance Cover available for DSP, CAPSP and ICGSP Serving Personnel ?
Rs. 50 lakh (Terms and Conditions apply)
36. How much Permanent Total / Partial Disability Cover available for DSP, CAPSP and ICGSP Serving Personnel ?
Maximum up to Rs. 50 lakh (Terms and Conditions apply)
37. What is the amount of Air Accidental (Death) Insurance Cover available for DSP, CAPSP and ICGSP Serving Personnel ?
Rs. 1 Crore (Terms and Conditions apply)
38. Is there any Personal Accidental (Death) Insurance available for Pensioners of DSP, CAPSP and ICGSP ?
Yes. Personal Accidental (Death) Insurance {PAI} is available for pensioners of DSP, CAPSP and ICGSP w.e.f. 04.01.2022 and at present this is Rs. 30 lakh (Terms and conditions apply)
40. Is Permanent Total / Partial Disability Cover is applicable to Pensioners of DSP, CAPSP and ICGSP ?
No
41. Is Air Accidental Insurance (Death) Cover is applicable to Pensioners of DSP, CAPSP and ICGSP ?
No
42. Which Debit card is issued for Salary Package customers of DSP, CAPSP and ICGSP ?
Debit Cards are issued free of cost to all Salary Package customers and annual maintenance charges are also waived. Issuance of Debit Card depends upon the variant of the Salary Account as under:
Diamond / Platinum : International Platinum Debit Card with withdrawal limit of Rs. 1 lakh (or equivalent in foreign currency) per day
Gold : International Gold Debit Card with withdrawal limit of Rs. 50,000/- (or equivalent in foreign currency) per day
43. Who are eligible for Shaurya Family Pension Scheme ?
Family Pensioners of Defence, Central Armed Police Force (including Intelligence Bureau & Special Force under Cabinet Secretariat) and Indian Coast Guards are eligible for Shaurya Family Pension Account.
44. Is there any Insurance available unde Shaurya Family Pension Account ?
No. There is no Insurance available under Shaurya Family Pension Account.
45. What are the benefits available under Shaurya Family Pension Account ?
Following benefits are available :-
Zero Balance Account
No Monthly Average Balance charges
Auto Sweep Facility (Optional)
Free Debit Card with exclusive benefits
Unlimited number of transactions across SBI / Other Banks’ ATMs in India
Waiver of issuance charges on Demand Draft
Waiver of issuance charges of Multi City Cheques up to 25 cheque leaves per month
Waiver of online RTGS / NEFT Charges
Competitive Interest Rates on Pension Loans
10% Concession on annual locker rental Charges
46. Who are eligible for Shaurya Education Loan ?
All serving DSP and ICGSP customers are eligible for Shaurya Education Loan.
47. What benefits are available under Shaurya Education Loan ?
Collateral security is not required for loans up to Rs. 40 lakh.
Central Government Salary Package (CGSP), State Government Salary Package (SGSP), Railway Salary Package (RSP), Police Salary Package (PSP)
48. Who are eligible for Central Government Salary Package (CGSP) ?
CGSP account is offered to employees of Ministries and Departments of Central Government including Defence civilians, employees of Reserve Bank of India (RBI), National Bank for Rural and Agricultural Development (NABARD) and Autonomous Bodies/ Academies/ Councils listed in GOI Directory (https://igod.gov.in) and CAG of India website (http://www.saiinida.gov.in).
49. Who are eligible for State Government Salary Package (SGSP) ?
SGSP account is offered to regular employees of State Government and Union Territories and Boards in States and Union Territories etc.
50. Who are eligible for Railway Salary Package (RSP) ?
RSP account is offered to employees of Indian Railways, Kolkata Metro and Konkan Railway Corporation.
51. Who are eligible for Police Salary Package (PSP)?
Police personnel of Central Police Organisations, State and Union Territories, and employees/ Jawans of Home Guards and regular employees of Directorate / Department of Prosecution, Civil Defence, Department of Forensic Sciences in states, Prison Departments, and Fire departments (only where the fire departments are functioning as a unit of police departments) will be offered police salary package.
52. What are the variants of accounts available to RSP?
Five variants, namely Silver, Gold, Diamond, Platinum and Rhodium are available, depending on Pay band level of employees.
53. What are the variants of accounts available to SGSP, CGSP and PSP customer ?
Broadly, five variants, namely Silver, Gold, Diamond, Platinum and Rhodium are available, depending on the level of the employee's net monthly salary. Additionally, few other variants are available under PSP and CGSP. These variants have different facilities on offer.
54. What is criteria for categorisation of variant in CGSP, SGSP and PSP?
Silver : Net monthly Salary credit from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 25,000
Gold : Net monthly Salary credit from Rs. 25,001 to Rs. 50,000
Dimond : Net monthly Salary credit from Rs. 50,001 to Rs. 1,00,000
Platinum : Net monthly Salary credit from Rs. 1,00,000 to ₹2,00,000
Rhodium : Net monthly Salary credit greater than ₹2,00,000
- Salary Accounts of IAS, Indian Forest Services (IFS) and IPS, are eligible in Royale variant under CGSP and PSP.
55. What is Identifier Code in CGSP, SGSP, PSP and CAPSP ?
Identifier code is 10 digit identification code to identify name of Department applicable in case of CGSP, SGSP, PSP and CAPSP.
56. What is criteria for categorisation of variant in Railway Salary Package (RSP) Account ?
Silver: Pay band level 1-4
Gold: Pay band level 5-7
Diamond: Pay band level 8-9
Platinum: Pay band level 10-13A
Rhodium: Pay band level 14 & above
57. What is the amount of Personal Accidental Insurance (Death) Cover available for CGSP, SGSP, PSP and RSP ?
Upto ₹ 1 cr personal Accidental Insurance (Death) and add on is available and varies as per salary package.
Silver : Rs. 1 lakh
Gold : Rs. 5 lakh
Diamond : Rs. 15 lakh
Platinum : Rs. 20 lakh (Terms and conditions apply)
-->
58. What is the amount of Air Accidental Insurance (Death) Cover available for CGSP, SGSP, PSP, and RSP ?
Upto ₹ 1.6 cr Air Accidental Insurance (Death) is available and varies as per salary package.
59. Which Debit card is issued for Salary Package customers of CGSP, SGSP, RSP, PSP, PSP ?
New aged RuPay Debit Cards are issued free of cost to all Salary Package customers and annual maintenance charges are also waived.
60. Are pensioners of CGSP, SGSP, PSP and RSP eligible for any benefits of Salary Package ?
Comprehensive pension package is exclusively available to non-defence pensioners, aged <= 70 years i.e. who have retired from Central Government/ State Government/Railway/Police or Public Sector Undertakings
Corporate Salary Package (CSP)
61. Who is eligible for Corporate Salary Package (CSP) ?
CSP account is offered to regular employees of Private/ Public Sector Corporates, Public Sector Undertakings, Private Institutions, Promoter/ Founders etc. and on rolls Contractual Employees of the Bank as well as Private/ Public/ Govt. Sector Corporates/ Institutions/ Departments.
62. What are the variants of accounts available to Corporate Salary Package (CSP) customer ?
Five variants, namely Silver, Gold, Diamond, Platinum and Rhodium are available, depending on employee's net monthly salary. These variants have different facilities on offer.
63. What is criteria for categorisation of variant in Corporate Salary Package Account ?
Silver : Net monthly Salary credit from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 25,000
Gold : Net monthly Salary credit from Rs. 25,001 to Rs. 50,000
Dimond : Net monthly Salary credit from Rs. 50,001 to Rs. 1,00,000
Platinum : Net monthly Salary credit from Rs. 1,00,001 to Rs. 2,00,000
Rhodium : Net monthly Salary credit above Rs. 2,00,000
64. Which Debit card is issued for Salary Package customers of CSP Customers?
Debit Cards are issued free of cost to all Salary Package customers and annual maintenance charges are also waived. Issuance of Debit Card depends upon the variant of the Salary Account as under:
Platinum / Rhodium : International Platinum Debit Card with withdrawal limit of Rs. 2 lakh (or equivalent in foreign currency) per day
Diamond: International Gold Debit Card with withdrawal limit of Rs. 1 lakh (or equivalent in foreign currency) per day
Gold: International Gold Debit Card with withdrawal limit of Rs. 1 lakh (or equivalent in foreign currency) per day
Silver : Domestic Classic Debit Card with withdrawal limit of Rs. 1 lakh per day
(Terms and conditions apply)
65. Are pensioners of CSP eligible for any benefits of Salary Package ?
No
66. What is the amount of Personal Accidental Insurance (Death) Cover available for CSP  Customers?
Personal Accidental Insurance (Death) Cover available for CSP w.e.f. 11.12.2025
Silver : Rs. 30 lakh
Gold:   Rs. 50 lakh
Diamond : Rs. 80 lakh
Platinum : Rs. 100 lakh
Rhodium : Rs. 100 lakh
(Terms and conditions apply)
67. What is the amount of Air Accidental Insurance (Death) Cover available for CSP Customers ?
Air Accidental Insurance (Death) Cover for CSP Customer is available w.e.f. 11.12.2025
Silver : Rs. 30 lakh
Gold : Rs. 50 lakh
Diamond : Rs. 80 lakh
Platinum : Rs. 100 lakh
Rhodium : Rs. 100 lakh
(Terms and conditions apply)
68. What is the amount of Permanent Total Disability (PTD) Insurance Cover available for CSP Customers?
Permanent Total Disability (PTD) Insurance Cover for CSP Customer is available w.e.f. 11.12.2025
Silver : Rs. 15 lakh
Gold : Rs. 25 lakh
Diamond : Rs. 40 lakh
Platinum : Rs. 50 lakh
Rhodium : Rs. 50 lakh
(Terms and conditions apply)
69. What is the amount of Permanent Partial Disability (PPD) Insurance Cover available for CSP Customers?
Permanent Partial Disability (PPD) Insurance Cover for CSP Customer is available w.e.f. 11.12.2025
Silver : Rs. 15 lakh
Gold : Rs. 25 lakh
Diamond : Rs. 40 lakh
Platinum : Rs. 50 lakh
Rhodium : Rs. 50 lakh
(Terms and conditions apply)
70. Can I Continue to enjoy the Salary Account benefits if I change my Job?
You may continue to draw your salary through same Salary Package Account even in the case of change of employer. You need to intimate your employer about your existing Bank details, so that the monthly salary credits are routed through the same account. You also need to intimate your Bank branch for the required change in employer mapping with the Bank.
Reimbursement Current Account (RCA)
71. What is Reimbursement Current Account (RCA)?
Reimbursement Current Accounts are offered to Employees maintaining Salary Account under Corporate Salary Package (CSP)/ Start Up Salary Package (SUSP) to get credit of various reimbursements other than salary paid by Employer. The account is a Current Account with Zero Balance feature and no annual maintenance charges.