Transaction Limits
SBI Pride
Domestic (in Rs)
International (USD or Equivalent)
Daily Cash Limit at ATMs
Maximum
Rs. 1,00,000
Varies from country to country, subject to a maximum of the foreign currency equivalent of the Domestic limit.
Daily PoS/ e-Commerce Limit
Maximum
Rs. 2,00,000
PoS Transaction Limit:
Varies from country to country, subject to a maximum of foreign currency equivalent of Rs. 2,00,000/-
Online Transaction Limit:
Maximum per transaction and per month limit of foreign currency equivalent of Rs. 50,000/-, available only at select international online websites.
Daily Cash Deposit Limit at Cash Deposit Machine
Maximum
Rs. 49,900
Not applicable
SBI Debit Card Loyalty Program:
FreedomRewardz SBI Pride earns 1 FreedomRewardz point (Reward point) for every Rs. 200/- you shop, dine out, fill fuel, book travel or spend online. Earn Bonus points on the first three purchase transactions using your SBI Pride as under:
50 Bonus FreedomRewardz points on first purchase transaction within completion of one calendar month of issuance.
50 additional Bonus FreedomRewardz points on second purchase transaction within completion of one calendar month of issuance.
100 additional Bonus FreedomRewardz points on third purchase transaction within completion of one calendar month of issuance.
Continue using your SBI Pride for at least 3 purchase transactions in a quarter and double your points earned for the quarter!
These SBI Rewardz Points earned can be accumulated and redeemed for exciting gifts. Please visit
SBI Rewardz/
for more information.
Complimentary Insurance
The SBI Pride Debit Card (MasterCard/Visa) comes with complimentary Insurance Covers as given below:
Cover
Details
Cover Amount
Personal Accident Insurance (Death)- Non-Air
Cover available to Debit Cards which are active on any channel, viz, PoS/e-Com/ATM, during the last 90 days from the date of accident.
Rs.2,00,000/-
Personal Air Accidental Insurance (Death)
Cover available to Debit Cards which are active on any channel, viz, PoS/e-Com/ATM, during the last 90 days from the date of accident, subject to a condition of the air ticket being purchased using the Debit Card.
Rs.4,00,000/-
Family Transportation & Transportation of Mortal Remains
If the Personal Accident Insurance claim is accepted as a valid claim, then the expenses incurred in transporting 2 immediate family members to the hospital, and the expenses incurred in transporting the mortal remains of the insured person from hospital to the residence, will be reimbursed as an additional benefit.
Upto Rs.50,000/-
Checked-in Baggage Loss Cover
Checked-in Baggage Loss Cover (in addition to the Cover available from the airline company) for lost baggage during air travel (Domestic & International) subject to a condition of the air ticket being purchased using the Debit Card.
Upto Rs.25,000/-
Purchase Protection Cover
Purchase Protection for theft and burglary upto 90 days from the date of purchase in respect of items purchased using Debit Card at PoS/e-Com
Rs.5,000/-
Lost Card Liability Cover
Cover available on Unauthorized use of Lost/Stolen Debit Card. 2 days pre reporting and 7 day post reporting (including the reporting day) claims are covered. Pin/OTP based transactions not covered.
Rs.80,000/
Claim procedure and terms & conditions for Personal Accident Insurance
.
Claim procedure and terms & conditions for Checked-In Baggage Loss Cover
.
Claim procedure and terms & conditions for Purchase Protection Cover
.
Claim procedure and terms & conditions for Lost Card Liability Cover
.
Link: Debit Card Related Charges
Last Updated On : Friday, 13-03-2026