About us
In order to consolidate the ESG and climate finance functions of the Bank, a dedicated “ESG & CFU - Horizontal Business Unit”, has been created.
ESG & CFU is a unique department within the Bank, drawing expertise as well as possible representation from various departments (thus being a “Horizontal” BU instead of an independent vertical BU).
ESG & CFU – Mission & Vision
Vision:
To lead India and the World in Climate Finance – with a Pathway to Net Zero (Scope 1, 2 & 3) for the Bank by 2055, Centenary year of SBI Formation.
Mission:
To achieve by 2030:
Net Zero in Scope 1 & 2 emissions.
Facilitate at least 7.5% to 10% of Domestic Gross Advances to be Green Advances.
Our Initiatives for Reducing Carbon Footprint in Internal Operations
Sustainable Energy Initiatives:
Bank is actively reducing its carbon footprint in internal operations by clean energy practices. Bank has an installed solar capacity in excess of 26 MW and also owns 10 windmills with an aggregate capacity of 15 MW.
Transition to Green Power Purchasing:
The Bank is taking proactive steps towards transition to lesser carbon footprints in its operations by purchasing green power from DISCOMs. As on 31st March 2024, 18 large buildings of the Bank have successfully been shifted to green power procurement, offsetting approximately 1.74 crore units of electrical consumption annually. Notably, 'State Bank Bhawan' Bank's Corporate Office in Mumbai, has achieved 100% migration to renewable energy sources.
Green Building Certifications:
During the financial year 2023-24, the Bank obtained Green Building ratings from the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) for 13 of its prestigious buildings, bringing the total number of owned green certified buildings to 45.
Expansion of Solar Infrastructure:
In FY 2023-24, the Bank installed 151 new rooftop solar plants with a combined capacity of 4.20 MWp in its own buildings nationwide, bringing the total number of solarized buildings to 795. Bank also operates 3,534 solar powered ATMs.
Deployment of Sustainable Technologies:
Bank has installed 48 electric vehicle (EV) chargers in its owned buildings, facilitating the adoption of clean transportation options among customers and employees.
Environmental Conservation Efforts:
In the FY 23-24, Bank has planted over 7.5 lakh trees, demonstrating its dedication to biodiversity conservation and ecosystem restoration initiatives.
Water Management and Waste Recycling:
The Bank has implemented 454 rainwater harvesting systems and 37 sewage treatment plants across its buildings in India, emphasizing its commitment to efficient water management and environmental stewardship.
Additionally, 20 PET bottle crushing machines have also been installed to promote plastic waste reduction and recycling efforts.
Community Outreach Programs :
Bank has launched a 'Green Club' program amongst 1,242 of it's offices during FY 2024-25.
'Green Club' is an empowering mechanism for Branches / Employees to adopt, participate and take up eco-friendly and sustainable activities and projects within the Bank and also to engage with and influence the neighbourhood communities for adoption of climate friendly and sustainable practices.
Last Updated On : Saturday, 07-12-2024