What is the ZED Scheme?
In the book ‘Absolutes of Quality Management’, written by Philip Crosby, he agrees that the Null defect concept is, in reality, the pursuit of enhanced quality and perfection in work or product outcome. A zero-defect is hard to attain and hence the goals of quality improvement, exploiting knowledge fully, and continuous improvement is the desired result of the scheme. The use of optimum practices leads to zero wastages in a project and removes not-useful processes, procedures, policies, employees, tools, etc.

The ZED scheme is also known as the zero defect, zero effect scheme and was launched by the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises or MSME Ministry in 2016 and is a comprehensive, integrated quality certification system for products, processes and outcomes in the MSME sector. It focuses on the concepts of the ZED culture or Zero Effect and Zero Defects in the MSME industries. It means removing processes that have a defect or the removal of defective products. It also indicates the improvement of quality, production, energy savings, manufacturing efficiency, mitigation of pollution, HR and financial efficiency, and includes the Intellectual property rights (IPR) and design of processes and products.

What is meant by Zero Effect Zero Defect?
Zero Defect: The concept of zero defect focuses entirely on the customers and tries to bring in zero waste in all aspects with zero non-compliance in manufacturing or designing processes and zero non-conformity in products

Zero Effect: Zero effect means zero wastage of natural resources and focuses on the environment and how to make it better. It means there shall be zero effect on the environment from MSMEs regarding liquid discharge, air pollution and solid waste materials.

The MSME (Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises) Development Commissioner and the Government of India (GOI) has implemented the upgraded version of the ZED Certification Scheme for ZED MSME Financial Support for 3 years from FYs 2017 to 2020. Its financial budget is ₹116.94 Crore is from the Gol, and ₹16.94 Crore is from private contributions. This funding scheme is a comprehensive hand-holding effort on the Government’s part to upgrade MSMEs by driving their manufacturing processes on environmental and quality-related ratings or their assessment ratings to make them globally competitive. Presently, 23,948 MSME units have registered under the scheme to implement ZED principles or Zero Defect Zero Effects principles on the environment.


Zero Defect Zero Effect Scheme Objectives:
The objectives of this scheme are stated below.

To ensure ZED Registration, MSMEs are involved in the continuous upgrade of their standards regarding quality, processes, and products.
To build an MSME Zero Defect Manufacturing System.
To bring in quality systems and tools and efficient energy manufacturing in enabling the manufacturing of globally competitive quality products in MSMEs.
To drive and build the campaign known as Make in India.
To develop ZED certification and manufacturing professionals.
Thus, the broad objectives of this scheme include building in the concepts of Zero- Defect and Zero-Effect techniques and practices in all MSME manufacturing processes to ensure the continuous and ongoing quality improvement of the MSME sector through ZED Rating.

What is ZED Certification? 
The ZED Certification is the rating awarded to an MSME for its organisational and operational levels through marks awarded (using the weighted averages method) for each studied outcome or enabler parameter. Based on this score, the MSME is ranked as Platinum, Gold, Diamond, Silver or Bronze enterprises and denotes its conformity to the standards set out by the ZED. Its implementation is by QCI or Quality Council of India and NMIU or National Monitoring & Implementing Unit. The Assessment Model for ZED Maturity has 50 ZED rating parameters and 25 additional parameters for ZED Defence Rating.

Nature of assistance for certifications and re-assessment of ratings:
The MSME scheme creates awareness of the ZED ratings and certifications in manufacturing processes, thus motivating enterprises in the MSME sector to re-assess their certification and production ratings. The main idea behind such ratings and certifications is to get the MSME enterprises to substantially reduce wastage, expand to their markets, increase productivity, become Central Public Sector Undertaking (CPSU) vendors, enjoy more intellectual Property Rights (IPRs), and develop the latest in new processes and products.

Take a quick bird’s-eye view of what the ZED scheme offers regarding re-assessment and ratings for MSME industries.

Nature of rating

Particulars of assessment

Actual Cost (₹)

Benefit

Rating/Assessment by agencies including the empanelled agencies for Credit Ratings 

The validity period of the rating is four years.

The assessment fee is 10,000/- for assessment on the desktop and 80,000/- per organisation for a comprehensive ZED rating.

The MSME Ministry subsidises an average of 70% of the certification fee and is 60% for Small enterprises, 80% for micro-enterprises, and 50% for Medium Enterprises Certification Fees.

ZED Defence Rating by agencies including the empanelled agencies for Defence Credit Ratings

 

The validity period of the rating is four years.

The assessment fee for the additional rating for defence angle is 40,000/- per enterprise.

The MSME Ministry subsidises an average of 70% of the certification fee and is 60% for Small enterprises, 80% for micro-enterprises, and 50% for Medium Enterprises defence rating certification fees.

Consultancy fees for Hand Holding and Gap Analysis to improve MSME’s rating undertaken by the consultants of O/o MSME DC, MSME-TC, MSME-DI, and other autonomous bodies like BEE, QCI/NPC, etc. 

 	
The HH or Hand-Holding charges are 1.9 L per enterprise.

The MSME Ministry subsidises an average of 70% of the consultancy fee and is 60% for Small enterprises, 80% for micro-enterprises, and 50% for Medium Enterprises Consultancy Fees.

MSMEs owned by SC/ST entrepreneurs owning the MSME enterprise get additional support of 10,000/-.

Re-Rating or Re-Assessment by agencies including agencies for Credit Rating 

 	
The assessment fee for re-assessment of credit rating is 40000/- per enterprise.

The MEME Ministry subsidises an average of 70% of the certification fee and is 60% for Small enterprises, 80% for micro-enterprises, and 50% for Medium Enterprises re-assessment of rating fees.

To get these benefits, MSMEs can register at www.dcmsme.gov.in free of cost and then apply for the relevant benefit by filling in Annexure-3 of the Application Form. Guidance can be sought at the concerned District Industries Centre (DIC) office for the MSME scheme or the NMIU. You can also reach out to the Director Shri Sanjeev Chawla, The MSME Development Commissioner’s Office, Room #720 of the 7th Floor at Nirman Bhawan on Maulana Azad Road in New Delhi, Pin code: 110108, or call on 011-23061178.

How can the ZED scheme succeed? 
The ZED meaning and approach in manufacturing and design operations can better India’s economy as a global player if our efforts are focused on the following:

The national regulatory authority can integrate the hub with the spokes of vertical institutions like the ZED QCI, NPC, BIS etc., rather than work in silos. This would provide for a cohesive policy on accreditation, adoption of standards, international rule forming, running of infra development and coordination programmes with the private sector and more.
Assessment for Conformity under the policy for National Conformity Assessment by adopting international standards within a fixed period from industry commencement.
Using the best management and quality tools to speed up to-market times, project management software, and management information with ERP, management of supply chains, etc., to help with inventories that are vendor managed.
Services Working Group to integrate the services sector.
Quality measures and mechanisms compliant with ZED culture.
Conclusion:
The manufacturing, service sectors, Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises benefit from the revolutionary ZED scheme. The zero effect zero defect policy is a move in the right direction for India’s economic production, green growth, and generation of tech-oriented jobs which are non-polluting and non-hazardous. Besides, it is a key factor in India’s sustained efforts for climate change and pollution-fighting measures.

Follow Khatabook for the latest updates, news blogs, and articles related to micro, small and medium businesses (MSMEs), business tips, income tax, GST, salary, and accounting.

FAQs
Q: How does the MSME scheme benefit the MSMEs?

Ans:

Some of the ZED Scheme benefits to MSMEs are

Higher revenues through improved processes: Adapting to the ZED process results in high-quality zero defect manufacture of products, services or processes, thereby reducing wastage, rejection, scrap, etc., and leading to higher profit revenues.
Access to a reliable and credible vendor database: The ZED Scheme ensures that investors in companies with ZED ratings in India have access to a highly credible and ready-made database of reliable vendors to help procure their activities.
Zero Effect on the environment: The ZED culture leads to environmental consciousness, greener solutions to pollution and waste disposal, and addresses the critical climate change issue.
Rewards and Recognition: Consistent champions of the ZED culture and high performing ZED rated units are nationally rewarded and recognised as responsible manufacturers or service providers by QCI and the MSME Ministry.
Adapting the best practices: MSMEs with a ZED rating use best practices and benchmark their systems.
Global market competitive industries.
Brand recognition and visibility
Q: How much does the Defence Rating assessment cost and the offset under the MSME scheme?

Ans:

There are 25 additional parameters under the Defence Rating scheme that ordinarily costs ₹40,000/- per enterprise. The MSME Ministry subsidises an average of 70% of the defence rating certification fee. It offsets 60% for Small enterprises, 80% for micro-enterprises, and 50% for Medium Enterprises in the defence rating certification fees.

Q: To what extent are the certification fees offset under the MSME scheme?

Ans:

The MSME Ministry subsidises an average of 70% of the certification fee and is 60% of Small enterprises, 80% of micro-enterprises, and 50% of Medium Enterprises certification fees. The actual assessment fee is ₹10,000/- for assessment by the desktop analysis method and ₹80,000/- per organisation for a complete assessment of ZED rating.

Q: What activities can be undertaken under the ZED Certification scheme?

Ans:

Some of the activities under this Certification Scheme are:

Conduct workshops, industry-awareness programs, and training of implementing agencies officials.
Benchmarking the international standards and adapting the ‘Best ZED Practices’.
Training of Consultants, Assessors & Master Trainers.
Conduct ZED International Trainings on QTT/QMS, production management, and delegate foreign travel to PAC/IAF.
Onsite Capacity-Building Enterprise Training for I&K, NER, remote areas and industrially backward regions.
Rating, assessment, re-rating and certification using the Desktop analysis method or the MSME Assistance programmes for Gap Analysis, Consultancy, and Handholding by the agencies responsible.
Calibrating online MIS systems, e- awareness and training content and e-assessment platforms and much more.
Q: What other schemes are there for the MSMEs?

Ans:

Under the PMEGP or the PM’s Employment Generation Programme are several initiatives like the

SFURTI or Scheme for Funds for Traditional Industries Regeneration
The CHAMPIONS portal advertising
ASPIRE or Scheme for Promotion of Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Rural Industry 
CGS or Credit Guarantee Scheme for Small and Micro Enterprise
Scheme for Interest Subvention of MSMEs Incremental Credits.
Q: What is meant by ZED culture or effect?

Ans:

The ‘Make in India’ program’s slogan is “Zero Defect Zero Effect”, also known as ‘ZED Culture’. This concept was advocated by PM Shri Narendra Modi and signifies,

Zero defects or high quality made in India products, processes and services
The manufacture of these ZED culture products leads to zero detrimental effects on the environment and ecology


The MSME Sustainable (ZED) Certification, a clarion call of the Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi under the aegis of Make in India, seeks nothing less than a paradigm shift in our nation’s industrial ethos. It exhorts Indian enterprises to aspire not merely for adequacy but for excellence without excrescence.

It emphasises two core principles:

Zero Defect: Delivering products of the highest quality that meet global standards and delight consumers.
Zero Effect: Ensuring minimal impact on the environment and society.
At the heart of this transformative initiative lie the micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) — the unsung stalwarts of our economy, employing over 80% of the workforce. Through handholding, guidance, and facilitation, MSMEs are encouraged to adopt quality practices, improve energy efficiency, and compete globally.

The Quality Council of India (QCI) has developed the ZED model to grade and enhance enterprises on multiple parameters, supporting India’s commitment to ease of doing business, reliable sourcing for investors, and creating skilled human resources.

With the goal of transforming small and medium enterprises, the ZED scheme is a step towards sustainable growth, global competitiveness, and responsible industrialisation.

 

Objectives
The ZED Certification is more than a standard — it is a movement to inspire MSMEs to embrace Zero Defect, Zero Effect practices and shape a future where Indian enterprise thrives with quality, responsibility, and global relevance. Its objectives are to:

Champion Quality & Innovation
Encourage MSMEs to produce world-class products using modern tools and technologies, while continuously upgrading processes for higher productivity with minimal environmental impact.
Build a ZED Ecosystem
Create a supportive environment where sustainable practices become the norm, boosting competitiveness and enabling Indian MSMEs to shine in export markets.
Recognise & Reward Excellence
Celebrate MSMEs that successfully adopt ZED principles, making them role models for others to follow.
Motivate with Incentives
Inspire enterprises to aim higher and reach advanced certification levels through a system of graded rewards and benefits.
Shape Consumer Awareness
Promote demand for ZED-certified products, fostering a culture where quality and sustainability are valued by the public.
Guide Policy & Investment
Identify areas of improvement within MSMEs, equipping the government with insights for stronger policy-making and smarter investment priorities.
The ZED Certification, at its heart, is about transforming MSMEs into engines of quality, sustainability, and trust — creating an ecosystem where “Made in India” means world-class, responsible, and future-ready.

Components
1. Industry Awareness Programmes/Workshops

MSMEs are informed about the MSME Sustainable (ZED) Certification through extensive awareness programmes conducted nationwide. These programmes take place both online and in person, ensuring accessibility for enterprises across urban and rural areas. With the active support of stakeholders such as industry associations, implementing agencies, MSME-DIs, District Industries Centres (DICs), large enterprises and OEMs, as well as the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), the initiative reaches a wide audience.

The objective is not merely to spread information but to build understanding and inspire participation. Through workshops, seminars, campaigns, and collaborative events, MSMEs gain clarity on the principles of Zero Defect, Zero Effect, the benefits of certification, and the pathways available for improving their quality standards and environmental responsibility. These programmes act as the first step in guiding enterprises towards a culture of sustainability and global competitiveness.

2. Training Programmes

MSME officers, assessors, and consultants receive structured training on the MSME Sustainable (ZED) Certification to ensure a strong foundation for implementation. These programmes are designed not only to build technical knowledge but also to equip participants with the skills needed to guide and support enterprises effectively.

Through specialised modules, participants learn about the certification framework, assessment methodologies, sustainability practices, and quality enhancement measures. Partners such as the Quality Council of India (QCI), the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), and the National Productivity Council (NPC) play a central role in delivering this training, ensuring that global best practices and national priorities are seamlessly integrated.

3. Assessment & Certification

MSMEs go through a well-defined assessment journey that may involve desktop verification, remote evaluation, or comprehensive onsite inspections, depending on the certification level they aspire to achieve. Each stage looks closely at how the enterprise manages quality, optimises resources, safeguards its workforce, and minimises environmental impact.

When an MSME successfully demonstrates compliance with the required standards, it is conferred the appropriate ZED Certification level. This recognition is more than a certificate — it becomes a mark of credibility, a symbol of trust, and a gateway to new opportunities, helping enterprises stand taller in both domestic and global markets.

4. Handholding

MSMEs receive continuous support to achieve higher ZED certification levels, adopt cleaner technologies, implement pollution-control measures, and move towards zero effect solutions.

5. Benefits & Incentives

The Ministry of MSME provides graded incentives to motivate enterprises to reach higher certification levels. These include support under MSME KAWACH (Knowledge Acquisition through WASH for Accelerated COVID-19 Handling), based on the WASH (Workplace Assessment for Safety & Hygiene) standard, to strengthen preparedness and resilience.

6. PR Campaign, Advertising & Brand Promotion

To popularise the MSME Sustainable (ZED) Certification and build a strong national brand for ZED, extensive publicity campaigns are carried out across the country. These include strategic PR initiatives, advertising across multiple media channels, and promotional activities designed to reach MSMEs, industry stakeholders, and the wider public. The objective is not only to create awareness but also to inspire enterprises to embrace the values of quality, sustainability, and global competitiveness that ZED represents.

7. Digital Platform

The ZED certification is powered by a paperless, single-window digital platform that brings the entire process — from registration and documentation to assessment and certification — onto one seamless interface

Certification Process


The ZED Certification isn’t just a badge — it’s a journey of commitment and excellence, unlocked through three progressive levels:

Bronze – the first step toward quality and responsibility
Silver – deeper commitment to sustainability and efficiency
Gold – the pinnacle of excellence, where global standards are met with pride
It begins with a promise. Every MSME takes the ZED Pledge — a declaration to embrace the values of Zero Defect, Zero Effect in everything they do.
The pledge brings rewards. With it comes instant access to the WASH Standard Certification and capacity-building programmes under MSME KAWACH, helping enterprises build safer, cleaner, and more resilient workplaces.
The climb continues. After pledging, an MSME may aim for Bronze, Silver, or Gold certification, depending on its readiness. Each level achieved isn’t just recognition — it’s proof of growth, credibility, and a future-ready mindset.
The pledge is more than a formality. It is the spark that ignites the ZED journey, urging enterprises to rise higher with every step.

Eligibility
All MSMEs registered with the UDYAM registration portal (of the MoMSME) will be eligible to participate in MSME Sustainable (ZED) Certification and avail related benefits/incentives.

Benefits
ZED Certification helps MSMEs improve quality, productivity, and sustainability while reducing waste, defects, and environmental impact. It also offers financial incentives, national recognition, and greater market competitiveness.

1. Financial Benefits

Subsidy on certification cost (up to 80% for micro, 60% for small, 50% for medium enterprises).
Additional 10% subsidy for women-owned, SC/ST-owned MSMEs, and units in NER, Himalayan, LWE, Island territories, or aspirational districts.
Additional 5% subsidy for MSMEs under SFURTI or MSE-CDP clusters.
Financial assistance for testing, product certification, and quality systems.
Subsidy for technology upgradation towards Zero Effect solutions.
Support for handholding and consultancy.
Incentives from state governments and financial institutions (e.g., interest rate concessions, fee reductions).
2. Process Benefits

Establishes standardised processes for consistent product quality.
Reduces defects and rejections through improved monitoring and control.
Increases productivity and operational efficiency.
Enhances workplace safety systems to prevent accidents.
Promotes energy efficiency and optimal use of natural resources.
Encourages adoption of sustainable and environmentally responsible practices.
Improves customer satisfaction through better quality and reliability.