FAQ SBI Gold International Debit Cards
1. How does Verified by VISA work?
Verified by Visa provides you with a password to protect your online transactions, just like you use your PIN at an ATM. Here are the steps:
Select the goods or services you want from a Verified by Visa online store and proceed to the payment page.
Enter your SBI Visa Card number and the online store will connect with SBI to check whether your Card is secured with Verified by Visa.
An SBI Verified by Visa pop-up window appears on your computer screen that includes your Personal Message.
Look for and confirm your Personal Message, then enter your password. SBI will then confirm your identity to the merchant.
Your payment is authorised and your order is placed. It?s that simple!
2. How do I register my SBI Gold International Debit Card for the facility?
You need to register for the service through the online SBI website or you can do so while shopping, by using your ATM PIN.
3. Can I register with my existing SBI Gold International Debit Card or do I need to apply for a new one?
You can register with any of your SBI VISA Gold International Debit Cards.
4. Can I register with more than one SBI VISA Gold International Debit Card?
Yes, you can register with any of your SBI Gold International Debit Cards.
5. After I register, how long does it take for Verified by Visa to become active on my Card?
The registration process is completely online and instantly completed. Your 'Registration Successful' message is displayed at the end of the registration process and you can start using the facility to shop securely on any VbV enabled Internet website straightaway.
6. What is a Personal Message?
When you register for Verified by Visa, you may be asked to create a Personal Message. When you pay online, always look for this Personal Message to ensure that SBI is authenticating you.
7. How will the online store know that I have Verified by Visa?
Participating online stores will automatically recognise your SBI VISA Gold International Debit Card number if you have registered it for Verified by Visa.
8. How will I know the online store is Verified by Visa compliant?
A VbV enabled online store will always have the Verified by Visa logo displayed in the payment page.
9. Can I register any of my SBI Gold International Debit Cards for the VbV facility?
No. The facility is available only for SBI VISA GOLD INTERNATIONAL DEBIT CARDS ISSUED BY THE BANK
Last Updated On : Tuesday, 17-12-2019