SBI Certified Pre Owned Car Loan

Eligibility for Pre Owned Car Loan (Used Car Loan)
Age: 21-67 Years. Car Loan for used cars must be fully repaid before the borrower attains the age of 70 years
Minimum Loan Amount: ₹2 lacs
Maximum Loan Amount: ₹150 lacs
Minimum Income:
Salaried : NAI- ₹ 3 lacs & above
Self Employed, Professionals, Businessman: NAI- ₹ 3 lacs & above
Repayment: 10 years minus age of vehicle (maximum 5 years)
LTV: 85% of valuation
Interest Rate : Click here to view the interest rates
Processing fee : Click here to view the Processing Fee
Dial 1800-11-2211 for more information/ applying through Contact Centre
Give a Missed Call on 7208933142 or SMS “CAR” on 7208933145 to get a call back from our Contact Centre

Documents required 


KYC Documents

Applicant with KYC compliant account with SBI

New Customer/ KYC non-compliant account with SBI

No fresh KYC document is required.


Proof of Identity: (Copy of Anyone) Passport/ PAN Card/Proof of possession of Aadhar Number/Voters ID card/ Driving License etc.

Address proof to be provided in case of change of address.

Proof of Residence/ Address: (Copy of Anyone) Driving License/Voters ID card/Proof of possession of Aadhar Number/Passport /Telephone Bill/ Electricity bill/Life Insurance policy

Copy of PAN Card is not required, if available in Bank's record.

Copy of PAN Card is mandatory, if not available in Bank’s record.

NRI Car Loan (for NRI borrowers)- Copy of passport/visa is not required, if the same is available in Bank’s record.

NRI Car Loan (for NRI borrowers)- Passport copy with page containing visa stamping is required, if the same is not available in Bank’s record.

You would need to submit the following other documents along with the completed application form:

Salaried

Statement of bank account for last 6 months.
2 passport size photographs
Income Proof: Latest Salary Slip, Form 16
I.T. Returns or Form 16 for the last 2 years.
Form 16/ITR is waived for our Salary Package customers who are maintaining their salary account with the Bank for minimum 12 months.

Statement of Bank Account (For six months) is waived for our Salary Package customers who are maintaining Salary account with us.

Non-Salaried/ Professional/Businessmen

Statement of bank account for last 6 months.
2 passport size photographs
Income Proof: ITR for last 2 years
I.T. Returns or Form 16 for the last 2 years.
Audited Balance sheet, P&L statement for 2 years, Shop & establishment act certificate / sales tax certificate / SSI registered certificate / copy of partnership.
Other Documents Required for Certified Pre-Owned Car Loan

Stage wise Instructions:

At the time of application:

Valuation Report (Quotation)
Margin Money Receipt (Original)
Copy of Seller’s RC Book
Copy of Seller’s Motor Insurance
Passport Size Photographs (2 Nos.)
Statement of Bank Account for last 6 months (Wherever applicable)
Relaxation in bank statement submission for salary package customers maintaining salary account with the Bank.

Form 16 or IT returns for last 2 years (wherever applicable)
(Waived for Salary Package customers maintaining Salary Account with Bank for minimum 12 months)

All other Documents as per SBI car loan scheme.
At the time of Disbursement:

Sale Agreement between Dealer and Seller, may or may not be stamped OR Undertaking from seller that he has sold the vehicle, received sale consideration and had no claim whatsoever.
Hypothecation clearance letter from Bank along with Copies of HPTER (Form 35), wherever applicable.
Correspondence with the Insurance Company regarding change in insured’s name and financer.

Term & Condition
For loans above Rs.5 lacs, scoring from 2 CICs will be required like in car loan schemes
Margin 20%
Income Invoice price like Maruti's True Value, Hyundai's H-Promise, Honda's Auto Terrace, Tata's Assured, Mahindra's First Choice and other OEM's cars IDV.
Penal Interest : 2% p.m. (over and above the applicable interest rate) on the overdue amount for the period of default.
