POSITIVE PAY SYSTEM (PPS)
As per Reserve Bank of India directives, Bank has implemented Positive Pay System (PPS) for all modes of cheque payments (Cash/Transfer/Clearing) effective from 01.01.2021. This is a measure for prevention of frauds perpetrated through cheque tampering/alteration. Positive Pay System involves re-confirming of key details of the cheque by drawer to the Bank, which would be cross-checked with the presented cheque at the time of payment processing.
The Positive Pay System implemented in SBI involves a two-step process as under:
Account Registration
Customer who needs to join the facility will do a one-time registration of his/her/their cheque operated account for Positive Pay System through any of our branches by submitting an application in the prescribed format Annexure I. Registration can also be done through alternate channels viz. Retail Internet Banking (RINB), Corporate Internet Banking (CINB), Mobile Banking (YonoLite) and YONO (Mobile App). Customers need to select an account level limit for registration. This can be any amount depending on customers’ risk perception. However, Bank is planning to make Positive Pay System mandatory for Savings Bank account cheques of Rs.5 lakhs & above and all other account type (Current Account/Cash Credit/Overdraft) cheques of Rs.10 lakhs & above. As such, once the mandatory clauses are made effective, maximum account level limits which can be selected would be the amounts mentioned above. All the registrations already made above the mandatory limits would be brought down to the mandatory level on the effective date
Help links for accessing alternate channels for registration for Positive Pay System is provided in the respective links as under:
Retail Internet Banking (personal)
Corporate Internet Banking (Saral)
Corporate Internet Banking (Admin)
Mobile Banking (YonoLite)
YONO (Mobile App)
For further details, please contact our nearest branch or our Contact Centre at 1800 11 2211.
Lodgment of Cheque
Once registered for PPS, customers need to provide following details of cheques issued for and above account level limit selected to Positive Pay System:
1. Account Number
2. Cheque Number
3. Cheque Date
4. Cheque Amount
5. Beneficiary (Payee) Name
6. Instrument Type (Two-digit number on right bottom on MICR band)
Lodgment of cheques can be done through any of our Branches or through alternate channels viz. RINB, CINB, Mobile Banking (YonoLite), YONO (Mobile App) & SBI Quick (SMS). Terms and Conditions for lodgements are provided vide Annexure II.
Effective from the date of implementation of mandatory clause in PPS, cheques for amounts equal to & above account level limit/ Savings Bank cheques of Rs.5 lakhs & above/All other account type (CA/CC/OD) cheques of Rs.10 lakhs & above for which correct lodgment details are not provided in Positive Pay System would be returned unpaid.
However, cheque return charges would not be levied on such returns.
Help link for providing details (Lodgement) of cheques through alternate channels is provided in the below link:
Lodgement of cheques
Annexure I
Annexure II
For further details, please contact our nearest branch or our Contact Centre at 1800 11 2211.
Last Updated On : Tuesday, 02-12-2025