SBI Green Car Loan (Electrical Vehicle Loan )
Features for Green Car loan / Electrical Vehicle Loan
Age : 21-70 years. (For sanction of loan)
Repayment Period : Minimum 3 Years; Maximum 8 Years
Rate of Interest Fixed: Further concession of 25 BPs in applicable rate of interest for normal car loan across the category of customers (Please refer Interest rate chart)
Interest Rate
:
Click here to view the interest rates
Processing fee
:
Click here to view the Processing Fee
Loan to Value (LTV) : Upto 100% of On Road Price
Category
Income Criteria
Maximum Loan Amount
Regular employees of Central Public Sector Enterprises (Maharana’s/Navratnas/ Miniratnas). Defence Salary package(DSP), Para Military salary package(PMSP) & Indian Coastal Guard Package(IGSP) Customers and Short Commissioned Officers of various Defence establishments
Net Annual Income of applicant and/or co-applicant if any, together should be a minimum of Rs. 3,00,000/-
48 times of the Net Monthly Income
Professionals, self-employed, businessmen, proprietary/partnership firms who are income tax assesses.
Net Profit or Gross Taxable income of Rs. 3,00,000/- p.a.(income of co-applicant can be clubbed together
4 times Net Profit or Gross Taxable income as per ITR after adding back depreciation and repayment of all existing loans
Person engaged in agricultural and allied activities.
Net Annual income of applicant and/or co applicant together should be a minimum of Rs. 4,00,000/-
3 times of Net Annual Income
Documents required for Electrical Vehicle Loan
KYC Documents
Applicant with KYC compliant account with SBI
New Customer/ KYC non-compliant account with SBI
No fresh KYC document is required.
Proof of Identity: (Copy of Anyone) Passport/ PAN Card/Proof of possession of Aadhar Number/Voters ID card/ Driving License etc.
Address proof to be provided in case of change of address.
Proof of Residence/ Address: (Copy of Anyone) Driving License/Voters ID card/Proof of possession of Aadhar Number/Passport /Telephone Bill/ Electricity bill/Life Insurance policy
Copy of PAN Card is not required, if available in Bank’s record
Copy of PAN Card is mandatory, if not available in Bank’s record.
NRI Car Loan (for NRI borrowers)- Copy of passport/visa is not required, if the same is available in Bank’s record.
NRI Car Loan (for NRI borrowers)- Passport copy with page containing visa stamping is required, if the same is not available in Bank’s record.
Following other documents along with the completed application form
Salaried
Statement of bank account for last 6 months. (Submission of Bank Account Statement is waived for our Salary Package customers who are maintaining Salary account with us
2 passport size photo
Income Proof: Latest Salary Slip, Form 16
I.T. Returns or Form 16 for the last 2 years. (Waived for our Salary Package customers who are maintaining their salary account with the Bank for minimum 12 months.)
Non-Salaried/ Professional/Businessmen
Statement of bank account for last 6 months.
2 passport size photo
Income Proof: ITR for last 2 years
I.T. Returns or Form 16 for the last 2 years.
Audited Balance sheet, P&L statement for 2 years, Shop & establishment act certificate / sales tax certificate / SSI registered certificate / copy of partnership.
Person engaged in agricultural and allied activities.
Statement of bank account for last 6 months.
2 passport size photo
Direct agricultural activity (crop cultivation):
Khasra/Chitta Adangal (showing cropping pattern) Patta/Khatoni (showing land holding) with photograph. All land should be on free hold basis and ownership proof to be in the name of borrower.
Allied agricultural activity (like Dairy, Poultry, Plantation/ Horticulture)
Documentary proof of running of the activities to be provided.
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Monday, 16-02-2026