Purpose:
To set up for providing Agri-Clinics expert advice and services to farmers on various technologies and clinical services for crop and animal health.
For set up Agri-Business Centers for maintenance and custom hiring of farm equipment, sale of inputs and other services in agriculture and allied area, including post-harvest management and market linkage for income generation
Features
Loan Limit:
As per the scheme, 20 lakhs are available to individuals and 100 lakhs are provided to a group of five trained persons.
Margin:
Up to Rs.5.00 Lakh: Nil
Above Rs.5.00 lakh: As per bank guidelines.
However, concessions would be made in respect of SCs/STs, women and beneficiaries of North-eastern states, Hill areas. In such cases, a maximum of 50% of the margin money prescribed by the banks could be given by NABARD to meet the shortfall in borrower’s contribution, if the bank is satisfied that the borrower is unable to meet the margin money requirements.
Type of facility:
Agri Term loan.
Moratorium:
24 Months Maximum (Should be decided because of activity Financed)
Loan Term:
Maximum up to 10 Years (inclusive of the moratorium)
Interest rate:
Loan up to Rs.50 lakh: One-year MCLR+ 2.00%.
Loan Above Rs. 50 lakh :-As per Bank Guidelines.
Fees & Charges:
Processing charges:
Up to Rs.2.00 Lakh -NIL Above Rs.2.00 Lakh 1.40% of Loan amount +GST
Primary:
Mortgage of Land & Building (wherever applicable). Hypothecation of assets created out of Bank Finance.
Collateral:
For loan up to Rs. 10 lakhs:
No collateral required. To be covered under PM MUDRA Yojana.
Above 10 lakhs Other Category:
- As per Banks Norms.
For loans up to 1 Cr:
- No Collateral required for all Proposals eligible Under
Stand-Up India
Scheme.
Subsidy:
Agri Clinic &Agri Business Centres Schemes are eligible for subsidy from NABARD subject to terms and conditions.
The scheme is open to following categories of candidates of age group of 18 to 60 years.
Graduates in agriculture and allied subjects from SAUs/ Central Agricultural Universities/Universities recognized by ICAR/ UGC. Degree holders in Agriculture and allied subjects offered by other agencies are also eligible subject to approval of Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Government of India on recommendation of the State Government.
Diploma (with at least 50% marks) / Post Graduate Diploma holders in Agriculture and allied subjects from State Agricultural Universities, State Agriculture and Allied Departments and State Department of Technical Education.
Diploma holders in Agriculture and allied subjects offered by other agencies are also eligible subject to approval of Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Government of India on recommendation of the State Government.
Biological Science Graduates with Post Graduation in Agriculture & allied subjects.
Degree holders in courses recognized by UGC having more than 60 percent of the course content in Agriculture and allied subjects.
Diploma/Post-graduate Diploma holders in courses with more than 60 percent of course content in Agriculture and allied subjects, after B.Sc. with Biological Sciences, from recognized colleges and universities.
Agriculture related courses at intermediate (i.e., plus two) level, with at least 55% marks.
Document Required:
Due Diligence will cover: -
Application form
Detailed Project Report (DPR). Any other document as per sanction.
Any other document as per sanction.
Only Key FAQs.
What is the objective of
"Agri Clinics and Agri Business Centers"
Scheme?
To supplement efforts of public extension by providing extension and other services to the farmers on payment basis or free of cost as per business model of Agri-entrepreneur, local needs and affordability of target group of farmers.
To support agricultural development; and create gainful self-employment opportunities to unemployed agricultural graduates, agricultural diploma holders, intermediate in agriculture and biological science graduates with PG in Agri-related courses.
For more details, please visit nearest SBI Branch.
Last Updated On : Thursday, 05-02-2026