Rent Plus scheme provides loans against assignment of future rentals to the residential or commercial property owners to meet their liquidity mis-match.
Features
Loan Amount Lowest of :
75% of realisable value of the property mortgage (as per latest valuation report of the Bank's approved valuer).
Maximum permissible under the Scheme.
75% of [total rent receivable for the residual lease period or loan period, whichever is lower minus total of advance deposit, estimated amount of property tax, service tax, TDS and other statutory dues for the period.
The Minimum permissible under the Scheme :Rs 50,000/-
The Maximum permissible under the Scheme:
In Metros Rs 7.50 Crores,
In Non-Metro Rs 5.00 Crores
Location Of Property :
Properties located in Metro/Urban/Semi-Urban/Rural areas.
Plan approval and other related permission for the property from appropriate authority need to be in place.
Margin : 25% of the loan amount
Nature of Facility : Term Loan
Repayment Period :
Maximum of 10 years or residual lease period whichever is lower.
Calculate the EMI and advice the customer about the same depending on the tenure they want
Repayment Mode:
Post Dated Cheques for the Repayment period given.
ECS (To Check & then include in content)
SI from the borrower's a/c with our Bank
Processing Fee
2.02% of loan amount. Maximum amount Rs. 1,01,865/- to be paid upfront as processing charges. The charges of the valuation of property are to be borne by the applicant
Prepayment : NIL
Interest Rate :
Refer to the Interest Rate page
Eligibility
Owners of residential buildings and commercial properties which are to be rented or already rented to MNCs / Banks / large & medium size Corporate.
Interest
Types Of Tenants/ Lessees
The residential buildings/commercial properties which are to be rented or already rented to MNCs / Banks / Large & Medium size Corporates. The Network GM is vested with the discretion to consider cases of other types of lessees
However, the properties should not be or have been leased to Schools, Colleges, Orphanages, Hospitals, Old Age Homes, Nursing Home or any other Social Sector Infrastructure.
All the property should be SARFAESI compliant
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Saturday, 20-09-2025