Features
Name of Card:
SBI Virtual Debit Card
Type of Card:
Global at RuPay / VISA / MasterCard
Issuance criteria:
To be issued in
normal Saving Bank Account( Non-FI) segment.
Usages:
International and Domestic
Channels : e-Com, Contactless (Device Tokenisation payment through Google Pay & Samsung pay)
Contactless payment facility :
Available through Near field communication (NFC) enabled Android mobile phones.
Presently, available in MasterCard and VISA Debit Cards
Daily Cash Limit at ATMs :
Nil
Contactless limit for Tokenised payments :
Maximum: Rs. 5,000/- per transactions.
Daily Purchase Limit e-Com:
Rs. 50,000/-
Validity :
5 years
Issuance Fee for Virtual Card:
Nil
Annual Maintenance Charges:
Nil
Product Features :
Instant generation of Debit card
Used for PoS transaction (Contactless) through Android mobile phones
Usage for e-Com, International, E-mandate
Free of charge
Nil AMC
Green Banking: No use of plastic and card chip
Additional Information:
Card will be instantly generated on clicking confirmation button for issuance of Virtual Debit Card
No physical card will be issued for the virtual card.
No. of Virtual Debit Card issued in an account per customer- 1 (One) Customer can permanently block existing Virtual debit Card and request for new Virtual Debit Card after a cooling period of 15 Days.
Number of times request can be made in a year for Virtual Debit Card through online channels – 2 (Two)
Card Tokenization Service (e.g., Samsung Pay, Google pay) for NFC transaction is available on Master Card and Visa Network. Currently, Android mobile phone having NFC capability support Card Tokenisation services.
Virtual Debit Card cannot be used for Cash Withdrawal
The SBI Debit Card is valid on select international merchant websites only. Bank will not entertain any correspondence regarding the validity or acceptability of the SBI Debit Card by any of the International Merchant Websites. Bank reserves the right with respect to the addition or removal of any international online merchants as per Bank’s own discretion, with/without prior notice to the Cardholders.
For international merchant websites OTP / PIN may not be required to complete the transaction.
Bank’s regular dispute settlement process will also be applicable for international transactions on the international websites.
All International transactions will be subject to applicable fee, charges and taxes. The information regarding charges related to Debit Card is available on https://bank.sbi.
Earn up to 10,000 SBI Reward Points every month with a cap of Rs. 1,000/- per transaction.
Standard Reward:
Earn 2 Reward Points per Rs.200 spent online or in-store with your SBI Virtual Debit Card. (with effect from 05
th
June 2025)
Activation Bonus:
Earn up to 300 Bonus Reward Points on making 3 payments with your new SBI Virtual Debit Card, online or in-store, within 2 months of issuance with minimum transaction of Rs.2000/- 1st Use- 50
2nd Use- 100
3rd Use -150
Milestone Bonus:
Earn 1,000 Bonus Reward Points on PoS and E-comm spends of ₹1 lakh or more in a month. (Spends on MCC-6540 excluded)
Birthday Bonus:
Earn 2x Reward Points on spends made with your Debit Card during your birthday month.
International Payments:
Earn 2x Reward Points on international spending, online or in-store.
Partner Brands:
Earn extra Reward Points on every purchase at Loyalty program partner brands, online, in-store and via SBI Rewardz.
Redeem Reward Points: You can redeem your SBI reward point through our website "rewardz.sbi", SBI REWARDZ App, Yono App and RINB.
Recharge & Bill Payments:
No matter your monthly bill - mobile recharge, DTH, electricity, gas or FASTag, pay through Bharat Bill Pay with your Reward Points and save every month.
Movie Tickets:
Cinema just got more special! Redeem your Reward Points on Book My Show and save on every movie ticket.
Merchandise & E-vouchers:
Explore and save on a range of home & kitchenware, décor, electronics, pooja items, gifting options and more fun shopping.
Travel:
Save on every flight, bus, and hotel booking by redeeming your Reward Points.
Compare & fly for great deals
No convenience fee
Partner Brands:
Redeem Reward Points on every purchase at Loyalty Program partner brands, online, in-store and via SBI Rewardz.
What is “Virtual Debit Card?
Virtual Debit Card is a Debit Card which is not in shape of a physical form and can be generated instantly using YONO Mobile App. It can be used for e-com (domestic & international), NFC payments by device tokenisation (Google pay and Samsung Pay in NFC enabled Android mobile device) & e-mandates.
How can I apply for “Virtual Debit Card”?
You can apply for “Virtual Debit Card” after logging into your YONO App.
What is the process of applying for Virtual Debit Card?
You can apply for "
Virtual Debit Card
" after logging into YONO App through the following
Login to YONO >> Cards >> SBI Debit Card >> Select SB Account>> Select option Request for new Card>> Select Virtual Debit Card>>Accept Terms & Conditions>> Submit
Enter OTP>> Virtual Debit Card will be generated
Activate it instantly
What are the charges for " Virtual Debit Card?
Currently Virtual Debit card is being issued free of cost. No annual maintenance charges will be levied on the Virtual Debit Card .The charges are subject to change at the discretion of the bank.
When will I receive my " Virtual Debit Card after applying for it from my YONO App Login?
The card will instantaneously be generated, and card can be used after activation.
What is the validity of the " Virtual Debit Card "?
The validity of "Virtual Debit Card" is 5 years from the date of issuance.
My application for the issuance of " Virtual Debit Card “has been rejected due to technical issues.
After logging out from YONO, log in and try again. Currently, facility available in Savings Account.
How to replace my Virtual Debit Card? Is there any replacement fee?
No. of Virtual Debit Card issued in an account per customer- 1 (One) Customer can permanently block existing Virtual debit Card and request for new Virtual Debit Card after a cooling period of 15 Days. Number of times request can be made in a year for Virtual Debit Card through online channels – 2 (Two). Currently Virtual Debit card is being issued free of cost.
How to Block Virtual Debit Card?
Card can be permanently blocked using any one of the following channels:
Through SMS
– By sending SMS "BLOCK XXXX" to 567676 from the registered mobile number (XXXX is the last 4-digits of Card). Virtual Debit Card once blocked cannot be unblocked.
Through YONO App
- Login to YONO >> Cards >> SBI Debit Card >>Select Block Card option for blocking Virtual Debit Card.
Through 24 x 7 helpline (1800 1234 & 1800 2100/+9180-26599990)
The Contact Centre will ask for certain information about the Cardholder before blocking the Card to ensure that it is not used fraudulently by any person.
Through Internet Banking
- Card can be blocked if the Card Holder is internet banking user. The functionality is available at post login >> e-services >> Virtual Debit Card >> View/Manage Card Follow the menu options to complete blocking of your Card.
Through SBI Branch
– Please visit any nearest SBI Branch with a written request to block your card
Virtual debit card once blocked cannot be unblocked
How to manage your Virtual Debit Card usage functionality?
In line with RBI guidelines, at the time of issue / re-issue, all Debit Cards are enabled for use only at contact-based points of usage, viz, Point of Sale (PoS) devices, within India. Other transaction types International usage (PoS/e-Commerce), Card Not Present, i.e., Online Transactions (E-Commerce), Contactless Transactions (Near Field Communication-NFC) are disabled at the time of issuance.
Initially, Virtual Debit Card generated will not be enabled for E-Com, International and Contactless transaction to ensure enhanced security on card transactions.
Cardholders can enable and disable their Virtual Debit Card usage, Set/Modify daily transaction limits for different transaction types by
Login to YONO >> Cards >> SBI Debit Card . Select option Manage Limit/ Usage
Through Internet Banking
- Card can be blocked if the Card Holder is internet banking user. The functionality is available at post login >> e-services >> Virtual Debit Card >> View/Manage Card Follow the menu options to complete blocking of your Card.
The facility is also available in Internet Banking, YONO Lite, SBI ATM, IVR and through Branch. This will enable a cardholder to perform the following on his Debit Card: - Switch On / Switch Off particular type of transaction before and/or after use. Set Daily Transaction Limit for particular type of transaction. - Modify Daily Transaction Limit for particular type of transaction.
What are the basic safety tips that a cardholder must follow?
Do not download any unauthorized software
Do not share your CVV ,Sharing CVV is like giving a signed blank Cheque.
Please refrain from taking help from any stranger while performing Online transaction
Card particulars will be required for blocking your Card in case it is lost or misplaced or stolen.
Never share your Card number, CVV (Card Verification Value), CVC (Card Verification Code), CVD (Card Verification Digit), OTP (One Time Password), expiry date, etc. with anyone, even if the person claims to be a bank employee or to any email soliciting the information or to any telephonic survey.
Always use your Card only on a secured network and reputed website over the internet to avoid any possible misuse.
How to take care of your Virtual Debit Card
Always keep track of your Card's transactions by viewing your account statement.
Always notify your Home Branch, in writing, if there is any change in mobile number/telephone number
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 18-06-2025