Recurring Deposit scheme provides an opportunity to build up savings through regular monthly deposit of fixed sum over a period and have sufficient funds to achieve specific financial goals at the end of specific period.
Features
Period of deposit Minimum - 12 months, Maximum - 120 months
Available at all branches
Minimum deposit amount is Rs. 100/- per month (thereafter in multiples of Rs. 10/-)
Penalty is charged on delayed payment of instalments.
In case six consecutive instalments are not received, the account shall prematurely be closed, and balance paid to the account holder.
Customer while opening RD or anytime during the period of deposits should give maturity instructions as detailed below:
Credit Proceeds to Savings Bank / Current Account
Issue IOI
Issue STDR
Premature Closer :
a) If payment amount is up to ₹.5.00 lacs (Principal) the penalty for premature withdrawal will be 0.50% (all tenors).
b) If payment amount is above ₹.5.00 lacs (Principal), applicable penalty will be 1% (all tenors). Interest Rate shall be 0.50% or 1% below the rate of interest applicable at the time of opening of deposits, for the period deposit remained with the Bank. However, no interest will be paid on deposits which remain for a period less than 7 days.
Account in default
The penalty for delayed payment of instalments are:
₹ 1.50 for every ₹ 100 per month for RD tenor of 5 years or less.
₹ 2.00 for every ₹ 100/- per month for RD tenor of more than 5 years. (Rates are subject to change from time to time) Penalty when applied shall not exceed the interest paid to the depositor
Service Charge
A service charge of ₹10/- is levied on RD accounts paid out on or after date of maturity, where in there is default in payment of three or more consecutive instalments and account has not been regularized.
Terms and Condition
Bank also sends intimation to customers by way of SMS calling for instructions on disposal of maturity proceeds.
Nomination available in favour of individual only.
Universal Passbook is issued.
Loan/OD against deposit is available.
Transferability allowed among our branches
Rate of Interest as applicable to Term Deposits for Public and Senior Citizens.
Last Updated On : Thursday, 30-04-2026