SBI Home Loan Eligibility Criteria
The following mentions the eligibility criteria for availing a home loan from SBI:

SBI Home Loan Eligibility For Salaried Individuals 
The monthly salary of an individual plays an important role in determining the required amount to avail of a home loan. 
The State Bank of India's home loan eligibility criteria depend on various factors, including credit score, age, and desired income or salary. 
With proper use of the Cleartax SBI Home Loan eligibility calculator, you can find out the loan amount you are eligible for considering your dmonthly income rangely income. 
SBI Home Loan Eligibility for Self-Employed
Meeting the SBI home loan eligibility criteria is easier and hassle-free for self-employed. Let's look into the eligibility criteria in detail below:

Nationality: Indian resident 
Minimum Age: 18 years
Loan Amount: Minimum- Rs. 50,000 and Maximum – Rs. 50 Crore
Loan Tenure: Maximum of 30 years
Employment: Any one of the following:
One of the directors of a company
Proprietor of a Proprietorship firm
Any one partner in a partnership firm
Status of Company/Firm
Should be the earner of net profit during the last 2 years
Should be in existence for 3 years minimum
Credit facilities should be standard and regular. The existing bankers however should provide an opinion report
If the property is acquired through joint ownership of the Proprietor and Proprietary Firm, the firm should be the borrower and remain free from debts
SBI Home Loan Eligibility Based On Age
The age of an applicant is another crucial factor to look into while determining Home Loan eligibility with SBI. The maximum Home Loan repayment tenure of State Bank of India is 30 years. The table below displays the maximum tenure for SBI Home Loan according to different ages:

Age of an Applicant

Maximum Eligible Tenure

21 years to 30 years	30 years
31 years	29 years
32 years	28 years
33 years	27 years
34 years	26 years
35 years	25 years
36 years	24 years
37 years	23 years
38 years	22 years
39 years	21 years
40 years	20 years
41 years	19 years
42 years	18 years
43 years	17 years
44 years	16 years
45 years	15 years
SBI Home Loan Eligibility Based on Value of Property
The loan-to-value (LTV) ratio is the desired loan amount disbursed considering the value of the property you decide to purchase. Below is the LTV ratio applicable for different loan amounts:

Loan amount up to Rs. 20 Lakh: 90%
Loan amount above Rs. 20 Lakh: 80%
SBI Home Loan Eligibility Based On Credit Score
SBI Home Loan eligibility also depends significantly on credit score. Maintaining a higher credit score causes low rates of interest and vice versa. The table below showcases the ratings applicable for different credit scores:

750 and above: Good 
600 to 750: Average
Below 600: Poor
Types of SBI Home Loan 
Here is a detailed overview of the different types of SBI home loan schemes:

SBI Flexipay Home Loan: Individual investors with a maximum age of 45 years can apply for this loan scheme whereas, the maximum age of loan repayment is 70 years
SBI Shaurya Home Loan: Employees employed in the defence sector can avail this loan. SBI offers them long repayment tenure with low rates of interest in comparison with general customers
SBI Privilege Home Loan: Employees involved in the State and Central Government can opt for this loan scheme. The individuals in public sector banks and Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) are also considered.
SBI Smart Home Top-Up Loan: Maintaining a CIBIL score of 550 and above is mandatory for this scheme. Alongside this, investors opting for a Home Top-Up Loan should have no other active loans with a repayment history of more than one year.
SBI Tribal Plus: The minimum age for investors should be 21 years whereas the maximum age is 60 years. Individual investors under this scheme can opt for a maximum loan tenure of 15 years.
Factors Affecting SBI Home Loan Eligibility
There are several factors to consider affecting the SBI Home Loan eligibility. Let’s consider these factors in detail below:

Age: While approving a Home Loan, SBI makes sure to consider the age of the borrower. At times, it becomes challenging for SBI to approve loans for older applicants for a long period. However, younger people qualify the eligibility for long loan tenure.
Documentation: As evidence of your loan application, make sure to submit tax returns, bank statements, and references of employers, considering your job situations
Income: For easy loan approval of loan application, having a regular and steady source of income is mandatory. SBI prefers offering quick and easy loan applications to applicants maintaining a steady source of income to lower risk
Rate of Interest: SBI Home Loan eligibility depends on the rate of interest offered on your loan. With low rates, your eligibility might increase whereas, with high rates, the eligibility can decrease.
Existing Loans: Lenders consider your current debt while determining your eligibility for Home Loan. For smooth loan approval, make sure to maintain your debt-to-income ratio within 50% and 60%
Credit Score: SBI assesses your repayment behavior and looks into your credit history. With a negative credit report, individual investors face difficulty in getting a Home Loan approved
How To Improve Your Home Loan Eligibility?
There are several factors to consider for improving your Home Loan eligibility. Those factors include:

Credit Score: Maintaining a high credit score allows for faster and easier loan approval.
Debt-to-income Ratio: The debt-to-income ratio determines how much percentage of your monthly income is allocated towards repayment of debts. The lower will be your debt to income ratio, the higher will be your Home Loan approval chances from SBI
Down Payment: Making a high down payment during loan application results in lowering the loan amount and your monthly mortgage payment also becomes more manageable
Co-signing Options: Maintaining a good credit score or debt-to-income ratio will raise your chances of loan approval and securing a co-signer will also be easier. If you fail to meet obligations, the co-signer takes the responsibility of repaying loans.
To conclude, opting for a Home Loan has become easier in recent days, but not everyone is eligible for the same. Thus, before opting for an SBI Home Loan, make sure to consider the SBI Home Loan eligibility calculator to determine the loan amount. This calculator is an easy online tool that lets you determine the loan amount once you provide the necessary information such as your age, status of employment, credit score, and citizenship. SBI, similar to other banks, provides strict Home Loan eligibility criteria to make sure to allocate funds to the right individual.

Frequently Asked Questions
What is Home Loan Eligibility Calculator SBI for NRI?


The Home Loan Eligibility Calculator SBI for NRI allows NRI to get an idea of the loan amount they can opt for purchasing a house in their home country even while living overseas. This loan scheme is designed specifically for NRIs with competitive rates of interest, long tenure, and a hassle-free documentation process. 

What is the SBI Home Loan EMI calculator for government employees?


The SBI Home Loan EMI calculator designed for government employees helps in determining the loan amount conveniently by considering factors such as the income of the applicant, age, assets and liabilities, repayment capacity, and cost of house/flat. 

How much Home Loan can I get on an 80,000 salary in SBI?


The Home Loan amount you can avail with an 80, 0000 salary depends on repayment obligations of your current loan as well as the monthly income. However, SBI considers the total EMI of an applicant to not exceed about 50% to 55% of monthly income. Another convenient way to find out the Home Loan amount is proper use of the SBI Home Loan eligibility calculator. 

How can I check my SBI loan eligibility?


Individual investors can check out their SBI Home Loan eligibility either by visiting the respective website of SBI or its official branch. 

What is the role of a co-applicant in Home Loan eligibility?


For easy approval of a Home Loan, avail the loan with a co-applicant. The main role of the co-applicant remains in repaying the Home Loan along with you (if you are the main borrower).

What are the eligibility criteria for Home Loan subsidy?


Under the Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation, the Central Government has introduced the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana scheme. Under this scheme, beneficiaries can avail subsidies on Home Loan. Following the terms and conditions of the PMAY scheme, the four main broad categories of applicants are LIG, EWS, MIG 1, and MIG 2. These groups’ eligibility criteria under this scheme are decided considering the annual income of the family. 

What are the eligibility criteria for SBI balance transfer and top-up loans?


To meet the eligibility criteria for SBI balance transfer and top-up loans, individuals should maintain a repayment history of at least one year. However, in the case of a top-up Home Loan, the applicant must reach a minimum age of 18 years and a maximum of 70 years during the time of loan maturity. 

What is the maximum SBI Home Loan amount I am eligible for?


The maximum SBI Home Loan amount you can be eligible for depends on your monthly income and repayment capacity. SBI approves Home Loans of up to 90% of the property value. For easy analysis of the SBI Home Loan amount, you can take the help of SBI Home Loan calculator. 