NRI Family Card - NRI
You have always been there for your family, taking care of their every need. With NRI Family Card you can continue to take care of them. It's a cash-free, hassle-free, worry-free way of sending money to your loved ones. Making sure that whenever your family needs money, you are always there!
Features of NRI Family Card
Family card for NRI is valid for 10 years from the date of issue
Minimum recharge amount is Rs. 100/-
Maximum recharge amount is Rs. 1,00,000/-
Maximum balance in the card is Rs. 1,00,000/-
Regular SMS and Email alerts on every recharge done or spend done using the card
Balance enquiry and view/download statement of card can be seen through the following link online:
prepaid.onlinesbi.com
NRE / NRO account holder can also do the balance enquiry online after logging into their Internet Banking Account. The procedure is mentioned below:
Go to Internet banking account
Click on 'e-Cards' in the menu bar
Click on 'Prepaid Card' on the left hand side panel
Click on 'Prepaid Card' Details and select the card
Card Issuance Charge
Rs. 105
/-
Top up / Reloading Charge
Rs. 10/-
Replacement of NRI family Card/ Duplicate Pin
Rs. 105/-
Usage of Card at State Bank Group ATMs or at POS/e-Commerce
Nil
Usage of Card at other Bank ATMs
Financial Transaction: Rs. 20/- per transaction
Non-Financial Transaction: Rs. 9/- per transaction
Overview
It is a prepaid family card for NRI to use in India, which is issued to resident Indian (family member or dependent or beneficiary or any acquaintance of NRIs in India). Using this card, the card holder in India can now easily receive the remittances, by way of periodic re-charging the amount in this card by NRE or NRO account holder through his/her INB account.
Eligibility
Resident Indian (family member or dependent or beneficiary or any acquaintance of NRIs in India) can apply for NRI family card. Applicant has to fill an application and needs to submit it in SBI branch along with one Identity and Address proof for KYC purposes.
click here
to download NRI Family Card application.
If Personalized Card (i.e. bearing the name of the applicant) has been opted, then card has to be collected from the branch after approximately 12 working days from the date of submitting the application in the branch.
If it is a Non-Personalized family card for NRI, then branch will deliver the card to applicant at the branch itself instantly.
Card usage process
NRI Family Card applicant will collect card from SBI branch
Card holder has to inform card number to NRE / NRO account holder
NRE / NRO account holder will map the card to his/her NRE / NRO Savings bank account through Internet Banking (INB) facility, as per following steps:
Go to Internet banking account
Click on 'e-Cards' in the menu bar
Click on 'Prepaid Card' on the left hand side panel
Click on 'Register Prepaid Card' and enter the card number
Once the card is registered, then recharge the card can through INB account as and when needed, as per following steps:
Go to Internet banking account
Click on 'e-Cards' in the menu bar
Click on 'Prepaid Card' on the left hand side panel
Click on 'Top up Prepaid Card' and enter the amount
Card holder will get SMS alert and Email alert on the recharge as well as on every spend. Thereafter, card is ready to be used at ATM / POS / Online shopping.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs):
Please
click here
to know more
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Monday, 16-09-2024