Repayment Options:
In case of Education loans for study in India, repayment will start after the completion of course period and moratorium period (Repayment commences one year after the course completion or 6 months after securing a job, whichever is earlier). In case of Education loans for study abroad, repayment will start after the completion of course period and moratorium period (Repayment commences six months after the course completion).
The Loans are sanctioned as Term Loans and are to be repaid in EMIs over a maximum repayment term of 15 years (180 EMIs) for Student, Scholar, PM-Vidyalaxmi and Global Ed-vantage Education Loans. The repayment of EMI starts 12 months after the completion of the course or 6 months after getting the employment, whichever is earlier. In case of Global Ed-Vantage Loans & Student Loans for study abroad, repayment of EMI starts 6 months after the completion of the course.
In case of Skill Loans repayment period is linked to loan amount and moratorium period is linked to duration of the course, which is as under:
Repayment Period
Loan Amount
Repayment Term (Maximum) excluding moratorium period
Up to ₹50,000
3 years
Above ₹50,000 up to ₹1 lakh
5 years
Above ₹1 lakh
7 years
Moratorium Period:
Course Duration
Moratorium
Up to 1 year
6 months from course completion date
Above 1 year
12 months from course completion date
The accrued interest during the moratorium period and course period is added to the principal and repayment is fixed in Equated Monthly Instalment (EMI). If full interest is serviced before the commencement of repayment; EMI is fixed based on principal amount only. There is NO penalty charges for prepayment. You can prepay your education loan anytime.
Penal Charges
: In the event of default in payment of any instalment or any irregularity in the loan account, penal charges at following rate will be applicable:
Irregularity up to 60 Days: 2.40% per annum on the irregular portion for the period of irregularity.
Continuous irregular for a period beyond 60 days: 5% per annum on the irregular portion for the period of irregularity.
Default in Repayment
In the event of failing to repay any two or more instalment(s) at any point of time, the Bank may send written reminders or make tele call/SMS or depute an official to meet the customer personally, all the incidental charges appurtenant thereto such as postage, telephone/SMS charges, transportation charges, etc. on actual basis would be recovered from customer.
Bank may handover the case to Recovery/ Resolution agents empanelled by the Bank for said purpose. The details of recovery agent authorized to approach the borrower has been published on Bank website at https://sbi.bank.in/web/sbi-in-the-news/list-of-empanelled-agencies
SMA/NPA Classification criteria:
SMA/ NPA Categories
Basis of classification – Principal or interest payment or any other amount wholly or partially overdue.
SMA-0
Up to 30 days
SMA-1
More than 30 days and up to 60 days
SMA-2
More than 60 days and up to 90 days
NPA
More than 90 days
Example
: If due date of repayment of a loan account is March 31,2024, and full dues are not received before the Bank runs the day-end process for this date, the date of overdue shall be March 31,2024.
1.If it continues to remain overdue, then this account shall get tagged as SMA-1 upon running day- end process on April 30,2024 i.e., upon completion of 30 days of being continuously overdue. Accordingly, the date of SMA-1 classification for that account shall be April 30,2024.
2.Similarly, if the account continues to remain overdue, it shall get tagged as SMA-2 upon running day-end process on May 30,2024 and if continues to remain overdue further, it shall get classified as NPA upon running-end process on June 29,2024.
Ways to Reduce Student Loan Costs
Service full interest during the course period and moratorium period (Optional):
Interest applied to loan account during course period and moratorium period will not be added to your EMIs. Thus, lower EMIs.
Interest serviced on Education Loans is eligible for deduction under Section 80(E) of Income Tax
Please contact your Loan Sanctioning Branch for further details
Timely Payment of EMIs
Repaying EMIs on time will help in keeping your account in good condition and will save avoidable additional interest costs
Central Scheme for Interest Subsidy on Education Loans (subject to eligibility) :
This Scheme provides interest subsidy on Education Loans for students from Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) with annual gross parental/family income upto Rs. 4.50 lacs.
Click here to know more
Eligible students may contact the SBI Branch concerned for any further details along with Income Certificate from the Certifying authority.
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 11-03-2026