Equity Trading for NRIs
Invest online in Equities and IPOs with the comfort of your home or office through our 4-in-1 account consisting of:
NRE Savings Bank (SB) account
NRE Portfolio Investment Scheme (PIS) account
NRE Demat Account
NRE Trading Account
Features of PIS Account for NRI
Repatriability
Permissible Credits
Inward remittances in NRE or FCNR (B) accounts
Transfer from other NRE or FCNR (B) accounts
Sale proceeds (after payment of applicable taxes) of shares and convertible debentures which were acquired on repatriation basis under PIS and sold on stock exchange through registered broker
Dividend or income earned on investments under PIS
Fully repatriable
Permissible Debits
Outward remittances of dividend or income earned
Amounts paid on account of purchase of shares and convertible debentures on repatriation basis on stock exchanges through registered broker under PIS
Any charges on account of sale/ purchase of shares or convertible debentures under PIS
Charge Structure
Charge Structure for Equity Trading for NRI
RBI approval for PIS (One time)
Rs.500/- + GST
Annual PIS Account Maintenance Charges (AMC)
For 1st year of operations:
Free
2 nd year onwards:
Rs.900/- + GST
Demat +Trading Account Opening Charges (To be charged by SBI CAPSEC one time)
Rs.1000/- + GST for NRI Regular Plan
Rs.500/- + GST for NRI Wealth Plan (applicable only to SBI Wealth customers)
Demat Annual Maintenance Charges (to be charged by SBI CAPSEC at yearly periodicity)
For 1st year of operations:
Free
2nd year onwards:
Rs.600/- + GST for NRI Regular Plan &
Rs.300/- + GST for NRI Wealth Plan (applicable only to SBI Wealth customers)
Transaction brokerage (on transaction value per scrip and to be charged by SBI CAPSEC)
0.60% + GST for NRI Regular Plan &
0.50% + GST for NRI Wealth Plan (applicable only to SBI Wealth customers)
To open 4-in-1 account with SBI and SBI CAPSEC
Please fill following account opening applications and send it to SBI Securities Central NRI Desk at
nridesk.ssl@sbicapsec.com
or existing SBI home branch in India along with the supporting KYC documents as mentioned in the applications:
Please fill NRE SB account opening application, if not having presently. Please
click here
to apply it through our Online Account Opening Application or click here to download the application to fill it manually.
Please fill NRE Portfolio Investment Scheme (NRE PIS) account opening application. Please note fresh KYC documents are not required to be submitted for opening of PIS account, provided you already have an existing KYC compliant NRE SB account.
Click here
to download the application and fill it manually.
Please fill Demat and Trading Accounts opening application of SBI CAPSEC.
Click here
to download the applications from SBI Securities Limited (SSL) website.
For any assistance or to get started, contact our Central NRI Desk at SBI Securities Limited. Feel free to contact us at nridesk.ssl@sbicapsec.com / +91 22 6856 7464. We are available from 9:30 AM to 6:30 PM IST (Monday to Saturday only) except 2nd & 4th Saturdays.
For more information about NRE PIS, Demat & Trading account with SBI Securities, please
click here
To open SB & PIS accounts with SBI and Demat & Trading accounts with another Broker
Please fill following account opening applications and send it to your desired or existing home branch in India along with the supporting KYC documents as mentioned in the applications
Please fill NRE SB account opening application, if not having presently. Please
click here
to apply it through our Online Account Opening Application or
click here
to download the application to fill it manually.
Please fill NRE Portfolio Investment Scheme (PIS) account opening application. Please note fresh KYC documents are not required to be submitted for opening of PIS account, provided you already have an existing KYC compliant NRE SB account.
click here
to download the application and fill it manually.
Please give details of your Demat and Trading Accounts, if already existing or please open these accounts with the broker of your choice and provide the details of the same on PIS account opening application.
Disclaimer
: State Bank of India and SBI CAPSEC does not solicit investment from NRIs residing in US, UK, Canada and Japan due to regulatory restrictions. Please study each investment product/service independently and evaluate the repatriability of the investment. Any person may avail it on an unsolicited basis but should consult their tax / financial advisor regarding any statutory reporting requirements or tax liabilities they might be subject to.
Last Updated On : Friday, 06-02-2026