Employees of the Central Police Organisations (other than Central Armed Police Forces and Railway Protection Force), Civil Police, Armed Police and Reserve Police of all States, Police Forces of The Union Territories, Government Railway Police (GRP) – (part of State Police Force), officers/employees/Jawans of Homeguards can avail of Salary Accounts under Police Salary Package (PSP)

Eligibility as per Net Monthly Salary

Silver-Homeguard : Irrespective of salary / rank

Applicable only for Homeguard volunteer / Jawans

(who are not regular employees of Govt.)

Silver: ₹ 10,000 and up to ₹ 25,000/-

Gold: > 25,000 and upto ₹ 50,000/-

Diamond: >50,000 and upto ₹1,00,000/-

Platinum: > ₹ 1,00,000/- and Upto ₹ 200,000/-

Rhodium: > ₹ 2,00,000/-

Applicable for regular employees / officers only

Benefits to the Employer
	Hassle-free account opening process. On request, our officials will visit your premises to on-board your employees. Employees can also opt to open their accounts online or by visiting the nearest branch.
	A convenient way to manage salaries across a large number of centres, through the Bank's award-winning Corporate Internet Banking.
	Online facilities reduce paperwork and salary administration cost. Enjoy instant credit of salaries to your employees' accounts.
	Zero charge for salary disbursement.
	Equipping your employees with a power-packed Salary Account that is trusted by the largest organisations in India.

Benefits to the Employee
Zero balance account and free unlimited transactions across all SBI ATMs.
Complimentary Personal Accident Insurance (Death) cover up to Rs. 20 Lakhs.
Complimentary Air Accident Insurance (Death) cover up to Rs. 30 Lakhs*.
Complimentary Group Life Insurance (Death) benefit upto Rs. 10 lakh* (T&C Apply).
Avail of Personal Loans, Home Loans, Car Loans and Education Loans at attractive rates and upto 50% off on processing fees.
Upto 50% off on locker charges
Avail of Auto-Sweep to create e-MODs (Multi Option Deposits) and earn higher interest.
Avail of Demat & Online Trading A/c at the time of on-boarding itself.
Free issuance of Drafts, Multi City Cheques, SMS Alerts. Free online NEFT/RTGS.
Earn points on various transactions through our loyalty program SBI Rewardz.
Host of regular offers on Debit Cards and YONO by SBI.
SBI Rishtey (Family Savings Account): For family members of Salary Package Customer with differential benefits
The offerings mentioned above are generic in nature and may vary from state to state. Salary account holders are advised to contact their home branch/employer for offerings pertaining to their respective states.

Note 1: Benefits under salary package are subject to classification of Savings Bank Account to respective Salary Package and Variant in banks system. All Customers Drawing Salary through SBI Accounts are required to apply along with proof of Salary and Proof of employment to their home branch for conversion of savings account to respective Salary Package/Variant (Conversion Forms). Account holders are required to verify classification of their accounts under respective package/variant from the name of package / variant printed on first page of their bank passbook / statement.

 
Note 2: In case, monthly salary is not credited into the account for more than 3 consecutive months, the account will be converted to normal savings account and all the features offered under Salary Package will stand withdrawn. All the Charges shall be levied as applicable to normal Savings Bank Account.

Note 3: The Salary Package is being offered to the employees by the Bank as a comprehensive solution for the purpose of providing various banking services and associated features are not intended for mobilization of deposits from them.

Note4: The Group Life Insurance Cover will only be extended of the concerned department/s sign an MoU with the Bank with relevant clause for employee data sharing with insurance company selected by bank. Benefit of life insurance cover is made effective from 22nd of succeeding month in which the MoUs with receptive departments are signed and data of employees is provided to the insurance company in proper format as desired by the insurance company. In any case the life insurance will take effect from the date of addition of accounts by the insurance company in the policy and not from the date for sharing the data. However, in any case it will not be before 22nd of the succeeding month of signing of MoU.