 State Bank of India (SBI) is India’s largest public sector bank, trusted by millions for its wide range of financial services, including personal loans. The SBI personal loan interest rate for 2026, including special benefits such as the SBI personal loan interest rate for salary account holders, makes it an affordable and flexible borrowing option.

Key Highlights


Rate of Interest: 10.05% - 15.05% p.a.
Loan Amount: ₹1 Lakh to ₹35 lakh (up to 24 times of Net Monthly Income)
Tenure: 6 months to 7 years or remaining service period (whichever is lower)
Processing fee: Up to 1.50% of the Loan Amount
Prepayment charges: 2% of the prepaid amount
What is SBI Personal Loan Interest Rate?
The SBI personal loan interest rate is the rate at which the State Bank of India charges interest on personal loans offered to salaried, self-employed, and pensioner customers. It varies based on the loan scheme, applicant profile, and whether you hold an SBI salary account.

SBI Personal Loan Interest Rate 2026
The following are the different SBI personal loan schemes with interest rates:

Xpress Credit Scheme
The SBI Xpress Credit Personal Loan offers quick approval, minimal documentation, and instant disbursal. Interest is charged on a daily reducing balance, and a second loan can be availed with timely EMI payments. This scheme is available only for SBI salary account holders.

Here is the applicable SBI personal loan interest rate for Xpress Credit Scheme:

Applicant Type 	Interest Rate
Defence/ Indian Coast Guard/ Central Armed Police 	11.15% to 12.65% per annum
Central Govt./ State Govt./ Police/ Central Public Sector Enterprises/ Railways  	11.30% to 13.80% per annum
Other Corporates	12.30% to 14.30% per annum
Pension Loan Schemes
Pension loan schemes enable retired individuals to opt for credit with minimum documentation and hassle-free repayment options. SBI charges simple interest on these loans, and people can file their loan applications from any nearby branch. 

The applicable interest rate for SBI pension loan schemes are as follows:

Scheme Type 	Interest Rate
SBI Pension Loan	11.30%
Pre-Approved Insta Pension Top-Up Loan	11.30%
Pre-Approved Pension Loan (PAPNL)	11.30%
Pension Loan Scheme For Treasury & PSU Pensioners	11.40% - 11.90%
Jai Jawan Pension Loan	11.30% 
Xpress Elite Scheme
Salaried applicants with a monthly income of more than Rs.1 lakh can opt for an SBI Xpress Elite loan. Here are its interest rates:

Particulars 	Values
Interest Rate (salary account with SBI) 	11.15% to 11.65%
Interest Rate (salary account with another bank)	11.40% to 11.90%
Minimum loan amount	Rs.3 lakh
Maximum loan amount	Rs.35 lakh or 24 times the applicant’s NMI
Xpress Lite Scheme
Applicable SBI personal loan interest rate for salary accounts under the Xpress Lite scheme tends to vary based on applicant type. Check out the interest rates in the table below:

Applicant Type 	Interest Rate
Defence/ Indian Coast Guard/ Central Armed Police 	12.15% to 13.65% per annum
Central Govt./ State Govt./ Police/ Central Public Sector Enterprises/ Railways  	12.30% to 14.80% per annum
Other Corporates	13.30% to 15.30% per annum
Xpress Flexi Scheme (Overdraft Facility)
The SBI Xpress Flexi Scheme is an overdraft personal loan for salaried individuals earning above ₹50,000 per month. It offers ₹1 lakh to ₹25 lakh credit with a tenure of 6 - 72 months (or remaining service period). Borrowers can redeposit surplus funds to lower their interest burden. 

Now, the applicable SBI personal loan interest rate for Xpress Flexi Scheme depends on the type of applicant's salary account:

Type of Account	Applicants	Values
Interest Rate (for Diamond Salary account holders) 	Defence/ Indian Coast Guard/ Central Armed Police 	11.40% to 12.90% per annum
Central Govt./ State Govt./ Police/ Central Public Sector Enterprises/ Railways  	11.55% to 14.05% per annum
Other Corporates	12.55% to 14.55% per annum
Interest Rate (for Platinum Salary account holders)	For customers having a salary account with SBI 	11.15% to 11.65%
For customers not having a salary account with SBI	11.40% to 11.90%
SBI Quick Personal Loan Scheme Through the CLP Portal
The SBI Quick Personal Loan Scheme through the Contactless Lending Portal (CLP) is an ideal choice when you do not have a salary account with the bank. The minimum and maximum loan amounts in this regard are Rs.24,000 and Rs.20 lakh, respectively, and the repayment tenure ranges from 6 months to 72 months. The interest rates are as follows:

Particulars 	Values
Defence/ Indian Coast Guard/ Central Armed Police 	11.40% to 12.90% per annum
Central Govt./ State Govt./ Police/ Central Public Sector Enterprises/ Railways  	11.55% to 14.05% per annum
Other Corporates	12.55% to 14.55% per annum
Pre-Approved Personal Loan to Non-CSP Customers
For non-Corporate Salary Package (CSP) customers, SBI offers instant pre-approved personal loans up to ₹8 lakh via the YONO app. You can check your eligibility by sending SMS PAPL <last 4 digits of SBI account number> to 567676. No branch visit is needed, and the loan can be availed with just a few clicks.

Its interest rate and other details are as follows:

Particulars 	Values
Interest rate	13.80% to 14.30%
Availability 	24/7
Documentation	Nil
Application fees	Nil
Real-Time Xpress Credit
Defence and Government salary package customers can avail the Real-Time Xpress Credit (RTXC) loan and borrow up to Rs.35 lakh via the YONO app. It can be done in two modes:

Digital Document Execution (DDE)
Facilitates real-time digital documentation, sanction and disbursement. Only applicable in the case of DDE-enabled states and union territories.  

Non-DDE
Offers real-time documentation and sanction at SBI branches and single-click disbursements via the Retail Loan Management System (RLMS). 

The interest rates for Real-Time Xpress Credit are as follows:

Particulars 	Values
Interest rate (for RTXC)	11.15% - 13.80%
Interest rate (for RTXC Elite)	11.15% - 11.90%
Minimum Loan amount	Rs.1 lakh
Maximum Loan Amount (for RTXC)	Rs.30 lakh
Maximum Loan Amount (for RTXC Elite)	Rs.35 lakh
SBI Personal Loan Interest Rate Today for Pension Schemes
Here is the applicable SBI personal loan interest rate 2026 (as of June 2026) for pension schemes:

Particulars 	Values
Rate of interest	11.40% –11.90% p.a.for Treasury/PSU pensioners 
Tenure 	72 months (before the applicant turns 78 years)
Prepayment charges	2% on prepaid amount 
Processing Fee	1% of loan 
Factors Affecting SBI Personal Loan Interest Rates
The applicable SBI personal loan interest rate can vary based on several factors. They are as follows:

Principal Amount
Your loan principal amount will play a major role in determining the interest rate. Usually, the higher the loan amount, the higher the applicable interest rate and vice versa. 

Loan Tenure
Generally, the longer the loan tenure, the higher the interest rate. Alternatively, personal loans with shorter repayment tenures come at lower interest rates.  

CIBIL Score
Your CIBIL score is another essential metric that comes into play while determining the personal loan interest rate. The higher your CIBIL score, the more convenient interest rates you can avail while opting for credit. 

Income, Assets and Repayment Capacity
The bank gains a financial picture of your life by assessing your income, assets and repayment capacity. Based on your cash inflows, it may provide you credit at a convenient rate.  

Customer’s Relationship with Bank 
Existing SBI customers will get better interest rates when opting for loans. This is because the bank already has an idea of the customer’s creditworthiness, income and repayment capacity, enabling them to provide credit at lower rates. 

Employer’s Profile
The employer’s profile also plays a major role in determining the applicable personal loan interest rate. Thus, salaried applicants get more convenient rates in comparison to self-employed individuals. 

However, employees of Central or State Government, public sector enterprises, Railway, Police, etc., get lower personal loan interest rates in comparison to individuals in other corporations.    

Eligibility for SBI Personal Loan Schemes
There are some basic eligibility criteria you must meet to avail of a personal loan at SBI. Additionally, they will differ based on the applicant type:

Salaried Applicants
Particulars 	Values
Minimum Income	Rs.15,000 per month
EMI/NMI Ratio 	Lesser than 50%
Employed At 	Central, State or Quasi Government offices, Central or State-owned PSUs, educational institutions of a national level, selected organisations having/not having a relationship with SBI.  
Salary Account at SBI	Mandatory (except for the SBI Quick Personal Loan scheme)
Pensioners
When it comes to pensioners, here are the eligibility criteria depending upon the pensioner category:

1. Defence Pensioners

For defence pensioners to avail an SBI personal loan, the eligibility criteria are as follows: 

Pensioners of the Armed Forces (Army, Navy and Air Force), Assam Rifles, Rashtriya Rifles, Coast Guards and Paramilitary Forces. 
Pension payment orders are maintained with the State Bank of India. 
The maximum age should be less than 76 years at the time of loan processing.
There is no minimum age bar.  
2. Central and State Government Pensioners

Central and State government pensioners must fulfil the following criteria to get an SBI personal loan:

Age of pensioners should be lower than 76 years. 
SBI maintains their pension payment order. 
Applicants must provide an irrevocable undertaking that they will not amend their mandate to the Treasury before the loan tenure is completed. 
The Treasury will also have to consent in writing that it will not accept the pensioners’ request to transfer their pension payment to any other bank until an NOC is issued.
Remaining terms and conditions of the scheme will also be applicable, including a guarantee by the spouse or a suitable third party.    
3. Family Pensioners

Family pensioners have to adhere to the following criteria to be eligible for a personal loan:

Authorised family members of a pensioner who are liable to receive a pension after the latter's death fall under family pensioners. 
Applicants should not be aged more than 76 years. 
Documents to Apply for Personal Loan from SBI
Here are the documents that you need to submit while availing a personal loan from SBI:

Identity Proof – Aadhaar card, Voter ID card, passport, driver’s licence or PAN card. 
Address Proof – Voter ID card, passport, electricity bills, telephone bills or property tax receipt. 
Employer-issued identity card.
Salary slips of the last 6 months.
Duly filled application form.
2 passport-sized photographs.
Irrevocable LOA that is addressed to the disbursing authority. 
Irrevocable LOA from the individual disbursing salaries and allowances. 
SBI Personal Loan Processing Fees and Charges
Find the processing fees and charges for various SBI personal loan schemes:

Name of Scheme	Processing Fees
Xpress Credit	1.50% of loan amount (minimum Rs.1,000 + GST and maximum Rs.15,000 + GST)
SBI Pension Loan	1% of loan amount (minimum Rs.1,000 + GST and maximum Rs.10,000 + GST)
Jai Jawan Pension Loan	Nil 
Clean Overdraft	Nil
SBI Personal Loan Interest Rate Calculator
If you wish to get an estimate of the amount of interest and the EMI payable for your personal loan, you can use the online SBI personal loan interest rate calculator. 

Here are the steps to use it:

Step 1: Navigate to the online SBI personal loan interest rate calculator. 

Step 2: Enter the principal amount and loan tenure. 

Step 3: Set the applicable SBI personal loan interest rate. 

The platform will generate your payable EMI amount and interest paid throughout the loan tenure. 

Tips to Avail SBI Personal Loan at Lower Interest Rates
Listed below are some tips which may help you avail a SBI personal loan at lower interest rates:

Ensure that your credit score is 750 or higher. 
Check for interest rate concessions during festive offers. 
Opt for a lower principal amount or a shorter loan tenure.  
Note – Please remember that despite taking these measures, the final applicable SBI personal loan interest rate will depend upon the lender. 

In Summary, 
Based on the the current SBI personal loan interest rates, choose a scheme, tenure, and loan amount as per your needs. However, if you fail to pay the EMI on time, a 2% penal interest is chargeable over the applicable interest rate on the overdue amount for the default period. Thus, before taking a personal loan, it is always advisable that you calculate the EMI amount and assess whether you can pay it on time every month without straining your budget. 

Similar Articles:
1. HDFC Personal Loan Interest Rate 2026
2. Bank of Baroda Personal Loan Interest Rate 2026
3. ICICI Bank Personal Loan Interest Rate 2026
4. PNB Personal Loan Interest Rate 2026
5. Canara Bank Personal Loan Interest Rate 2026

Related SBI Articles:
1. SBI Bank Balance Check Number  
2. How To Increase UPI Transaction Limit In SBI?
3. How to Apply for SBI ATM Card Online and Offline?
4. SBI Debit Card Charges
5. How To Block SBI Credit Card?
6. SBI Debit Card PIN Generation - How To Generate SBI Debit Card PIN?

Frequently Asked Questions
What are the eligibility criteria to avail an SBI personal loan?


To get a personal loan from SBI, the applicant must have a salary account with the bank, a minimum monthly income of Rs.15,000 and an EMI/NMI Ratio lower than 50%. Moreover, they must be employed by the Central or State Government, a national educational institution, Central/State PSUs, or selected companies with/without any relationship with the bank.  

How important is my credit score if I wish to avail an SBI personal loan?


Your credit score acts as a representation of your creditworthiness when opting for a personal loan. Thus, the higher this metric, the more convenient the interest rates will be and vice versa. 

Is there a need for security or collateral to get a personal loan from SBI Bank?


No, SBI personal loans do not have any security or collateral requirements. Additionally, applicants do not even need any guarantor to avail of such loans.   

What is the SBI personal loan interest rate for 1 lakh?


SBI personal loan interest rate for Rs.1 lakh will range from 10.05% - 15.05% per annum. However, the final rate will depend upon factors like applicant type, loan principal, tenure, credit score and repayment capacity. 

What is the SBI personal loan interest rate 10 lakh?


For an SBI personal loan of Rs.10 lakh, the applicable interest rate will range from 10.05% - 15.05% per annum. Additionally, factors like repayment tenure, loan amount, applicant type, income, credit score, etc.  

What is the SBI personal loan interest rate for 2 lakh?


For an SBI personal loan of Rs. 2 lakh, the interest rate will vary between 10.05% - 15.05% per annum. The bank will decide the applicable rate by assessing factors like the borrower’s credit score, repayment capacity, income, loan amount, tenure, etc.  

What is the SBI personal loan interest rate for 5 lakhs?


The interest rate for a Rs.5 lakh SBI personal loan will range from 10.05% - 15.05% per annum. SBI decides the final rate based on factors like the applicant’s repayment history, principal amount, loan tenure, etc. 

What is the SBI personal loan interest rate for 3 lakhs?


For an SBI personal loan of Rs.3 lakh, the applicable interest rate ranges from 10.05% - 15.05% per annum. However, the final rate will be decided by the bank based on applicant type, credit score, loan amount, tenure, etc.  

What are the State Bank of India personal loan interest rates for salary account holders?


For salary account holders, the interest rate for SBI personal loans ranges from 10.05% - 15.05% per annum. The final rate, however, depends on the scheme, credit score, applicant type, loan tenure, principal amount, and other factors.  

Can I close my State Bank of India personal loan after 1 year?


Yes, you can close your SBI personal loan after 1 year. However, you need to pay a 2% prepayment penalty on the prepaid amount. However, if you prepay your loan with the proceeds from a new loan under the same scheme, no charges are applicable.  

How to close SBI personal loan online?


If you close your loan by paying the last EMI, the loan will automatically close. However, if you wish to pre-close your loan, it needs to be done by visiting your nearest SBI branch. 

How to close SBI personal loan before 1 year?


You can close your SBI personal loan within 1 year by contacting the nearest branch. However, you have to pay a 2% prepayment charge (if applicable) on the prepaid amount. 

Can I negotiate with SBI on the personal loan interest rate?


Yes, you can negotiate the personal loan interest rate with SBI. However, it will depend upon your eligibility and your relationship with the bank. 

Which documents should I carry at the time of visiting SBI?


You should carry your PAN card, income proof (bank statements, salary slips and Form 16), identity and address proof (Passport, Voter ID card and Aadhaar card) and passport-sized photographs while visiting SBI for a loan application.  

Is it possible for non-SBI customers to get a personal loan from SBI Bank?


Yes, even non-SBI customers can apply for a personal loan at SBI. The SBI Quick Personal Loan scheme allows individuals who do not have a salary account with the bank to get a personal loan via the Contactless Lending Platform (CLP).

How to check my SBI personal loan balance?


You can easily check your SBI personal loan balance online via your net banking account. Additionally, you can request for a copy of the repayment schedule at your nearby SBI branch. 

How to pay your SBI personal loan EMI?


If you have a salary, savings or pension account at SBI, you can pay your personal loan EMIs through net banking. However, if you are a non-SBI customer, you can pay the EMIs via digital payment methods like NACH, ACH or ECS facilities. Additionally, you can pay it offline using cash or post-dated cheques.   

How to pay SBI personal loan EMI through net banking?


You can pay SBI personal loan EMI via net banking through standing instructions like auto-debit. Moreover, you can go for the other electronic payment modes and fund transfer facilities which SBI offers.  

How to get an SBI personal loan statement?


When you opt for a SBI personal loan, you automatically get a personal loan statement at the end of each month. Additionally, you can download your personal loan statement by logging into your net banking account.    

How to pay SBI personal loan EMI online from any other bank?


Yes, you can pay SBI personal loan EMI online from a non-SBI account by linking your personal loan account to it.  

How to get SBI personal loan status by mobile number?


SBI automatically sends regular personal loan statuses on your registered mobile number when you opt for a loan. However, you can also get it by calling toll-free numbers like 1800-425-3800 or 1800-112-211. 

How to track SBI personal loan application status?


You can check your SBI personal loan application status online by going to the official website, clicking on ‘Personal Loan’, ‘Apply Now’, then on ‘Application Tracker’, filling in the details and clicking on ‘Track’. 

SBI personal loan disbursement time?


SBI personal loan disbursement time ranges from 2 to 7 working days. 