Disclaimer
By clicking on the proceed, you will be leaving State Bank of India Website and navigating to the website operated by third party vendor(s). State Bank of India does not control or endorse such websites, and bears no responsibility for them. This website is governed by the terms and conditions of the third-party vendor(s).
PROCEED
Disclaimer
By clicking on the proceed, you will be leaving State Bank of India Website and navigating to the website operated by third party vendor(s). State Bank of India does not control or endorse such websites, and bears no responsibility for them. This website is governed by the terms and conditions of the third-party vendor(s).
PROCEED
Features
Summary of the SBI Surya Ghar Loan for Solar Roof Top
S.N.
Parameter
Eligibility Conditions
(Up-to ₹2 Lac)
Eligibility Conditions
(>₹ 2 lacs and up to ₹6 lacs)
1.
Purpose
Installation of Solar Roof Top for Loan amounts up to ₹2 lacs
Installation of Solar Roof Top for Loan amount above ₹2 lacs & up to ₹ 6 lac
2.
Loan Amount
Maximum Loan Amount Rs. 2 lacs
Maximum Loan Amount Rs. 6 lacs
3.
Age & Other Eligibility Conditions
Age up to 65 years (loan must be closed before borrower reaches 70 years of age)
Up to 75 years (with co-borrower) (maximum repayment period would be 10 years, including moratorium period but loan must be closed before co-borrower completing 75 years of age)
All Individual Applicants
CIBIL
Up to ₹ 2 lacs: No minimum CIBIL score
Above ₹ 2 lacs: Minimum 650 & above
However, customers with default/ write-off CIBIL are not to be considered.
Have Roof Top Rights on which the installation is proposed.
Have sufficient Roof area as mandated by MNRE from time to time.
Latest Electricity Bill.
Savings Account mandatory.
4.
PAN
PAN optional for CIBIL
PAN mandatory
5.
Margin
Minimum 10% of the Project Cost
Minimum 10% of the Project Cost
6.
Interest Rate(Floating Interest Rate)
EBLR - 2.15%
Effective Rate as on date: 5.75%
EBLR + 0% - Effective Rate as on date – 7.90%
7.
Tenor
Maximum 120 months (inclusive of Moratorium period)
No Minimum period
(No pre-payment penalty)
8.
Security
Hypothecation of Assets
9.
Processing Fees
NIL
10.
Subsidy
1KW – Rs. 30000
2KW – Rs. 60000
3KW – Rs. 78000
To be Claimed by Borrower from Suryaghar.gov.in (MNRE website)(Loan Account Number to be provided for credit of Subsidy Amount in the Loan Account)
Subsidy Amount – Rs. 78000
To be Claimed by Borrower from Suryaghar.gov.in (MNRE website)(Loan Account Number to be provided for credit of Subsidy Amount in the Loan Account)
11.
Net Annual Income
No Requirement
Minimum - Rs. 3 lacs.
12.
Documents required
KYC Documents.
Copy of Electricity Bill
KYC Documents
ITR Returns / Form-16 last 2 years.
Salary statement (6 Months)
Copy of Electricity Bill
13.
Moratorium
6 Months from the date of Disbursement
14.
Disbursement
Disbursement to be made directly to the Vendor / EPC Contractor after submission of all the required feasibility reports as mandated by MNRE.
Disbursement of Loan Amount + Borrower’s Margin
15.
Other Covenants
All applications are to be first registered at
https://pmsuryaghar.gov.in
and after successful registration, loan is to be applied through
https://www.jansamarth.in
Available for Self-Sourced Journey as well as assisted journey.
Insurance of Assets financed through Bank Loan NOT mandatory for Roof Top Solar capacity between 1 KW to 3 KW.
Asset to be insured for the total cost of installation for capacity more than 3 KW. Cost of the insurance to be borne by the customer.
16.
Link for loan application
To apply register at
https://pmsuryaghar.gov.in
After successful registration, please apply at
https://www.jansamarth.in
Eligibility Checklist
Indian resident and ownership of a suitable rooftop with valid electricity connection.
Ensure no prior solar panel subsidy availed; household electricity connection must be active.
Maximum RTS capacity up to 10KW; Maximum Loan amount up to ₹ 6 lakhs.
Credit Score: For loan amount up to ₹ 2 lakhs, no minimum CIBIL score, but for loan amount above ₹ 2 lakhs and up to ₹ 6 lakhs, CIBIL score should be minimum 650 and above. However, customers with default/ write-off in CIBIL are not to be considered.
Mandatory saving account in SBI bank.
Age: Minimum Age is 18 years.
Portal Registration: Mandatory registration at the National portal (PMSGY portal), for loan (Jan Samarth portal).
Disbursement to be made directly to the Vendor / Channel Partner of EPC contractor/ EPC Contractor, who are registered in the National portal.
Margin: Upfront margin 10% of the project cost to be paid by the customer.
Subsidy must be credited in the customers loan account only.
Required Documents
Sr No.
Parameters
Loan Amount up to ₹ 2 lakhs
Loan Amount above ₹ 2 lakhs and up to ₹ 2 lakhs
Electricity Bill
Submission of Physical electricity Bill is not mandatory
KYC(ETB/NTB)
*ETB-Existing to Bank
*NTB-New to Bank
Branch to ascertain for ETB customers if their accounts are fully compliant in CBS.
New Set of KYC documents need not be obtained for ETB customers who are fully KYC complaint and where there are no further changes in address or any other details
Only relevant documents for updation of KYC as per existing instructions of the bank to be obtained and updated on CBS for ETB customers where there are changes in address or any other details.
Full set of KYC documents as per extant instructions is to be obtained and updated in CBS for ETB customers where there are changes in address or any other details.
However, if the loan application amount is above ₹ 2 lakhs, then copy of PAN to be obtained and updated in CBS, only for those applicants where PAN is not seeded in CBS in all the above-mentioned scenarios of SBI SGY.
PAN CARD
Not Mandatory
Mandatory
Income Requirement
Not stipulated
Max NAI is ₹ 3 Lakhs
Income Proof
Not Stipulated
Salary Slip, Salary Statement, 2 Yr form 16, Pension slip, PPO,2 Year ITR.
Documents by Vendor
Quotation/invoice, site feasibility report, vendor -customer agreement
Insurance of asset
Optional
Mandatory insurance charges to be borne by customer.
FAQs on SBI Surya Ghar Yojna for Solar Roof Top Finance
1. Who are eligible to take SBI Surya Ghar Loan for Solar Roof Top finance?
A: All resident individual applicants who have sufficient roof area and roof top rights on which the installation is proposed, can avail this loan for installation of solar roof Top.
2. How much loan amount is available in SBI Surya Ghar Scheme?
A: There is no minimum loan amount. Maximum loan amount is ₹6 lacs.
3. Are there any minimum income criteria to avail this loan?
A: No, for loan amount up to ₹ 2 lacs, there is no minimum income criterion.
However, to avail loan for more than ₹2 lacs and up to ₹6 lacs,
net annual income should be ₹ 3 lacs and above.
4. How much margin money I have to bring for availing loan?
A:
Upfront 10 % of project cost.
5. What is the rate of interest in this scheme?
A: As on date (15.12.2025),
(a)
5.75% p.a.
, if the loan amount is up to ₹ 2 lacs.
(b)
7.90% p.a.
, if the loan is for more than ₹ 2 lacs & up to ₹ 6 lacs.
Please note that this loan is available at floating rate of interest
6. Up to what age, can I avail loan under SBI Surya Ghar Scheme?
A: The maximum age to apply for the loan is up to 65 years, if you are applying it in the single name Otherwise, maximum age is 75 years if you are applying in Joint names. However, the loan must be closed before co-borrower completing 75 years of age.
7. Do I need to pay processing fee also?
A: No, it has been waived for SBI Surya Ghar Scheme
8. Is PAN / IT Return /Form 60 mandatory for availing this loan?
A:
No
, if loan amount is up to ₹ 2 lacs. However, in cases of loan for more than ₹ 2 lacs & up to ₹ 6 lacs,
it is mandatory
.
9. What is minimum CIBIL score for this loan?
A: (a) For Loan Amount up to₹ 2 lacs, no minimum score is prescribed.
(b)For loan amount more than ₹ 2 lacs and up to ₹ 6 lacs, it is 650.
However, customers with default / write off in CIBIL are not eligible.
10. Are NTC (New to Credit) customers also eligible for this loan?
A: Yes
11. Do I need to have Savings Bank Account with SBI?
A: Yes
However, if a customer does not have Savings Bank account with SBI, she/ he can open a new SB account and apply for the loan.
12. What is the minimum repayment period?
A: No minimum repayment has been prescribed for this loan.
13. What is the maximum repayment period?
A: 10 years (Including moratorium period of 6 months).
14. Is there any prepayment penalty if I close the loan before its tenor is over?
A: No
15. How will the loan be disbursed?
A: Loan would be disbursed directly to the account of Vendor / Channel Partner / EPC Contractor.
16. How can I claim subsidy?
A: Subsidy can be claimed by the borrower at MNRE site (https://pmsuryaghar.gov.in), by quoting the loan account number.
17. Is insurance of solar roof top panel & equipment mandatory?
A: No, if loan amount is up to ₹ 2 lacs.
However, it is mandatory if loan amount is more than ₹ 2 lacs and up to ₹ 6 lacs
(insurance charges to be borne by the customer)
18. Which documents are required by the Bank to apply for loan?
A
: Required Documents
Sr No.
Parameters
Loan Amount up to ₹ 2 lakhs
Loan Amount above ₹ 2 lakhs and up to ₹ 2 lakhs
Electricity Bill
Submission of Physical electricity Bill is not mandatory
KYC(ETB/NTB)
*ETB-Existing to Bank
*NTB-New to
Bank
Branch to ascertain for ETB customers if their accounts are fully compliant in CBS.
New Set of KYC documents need not be obtained for ETB customers who are fully KYC complaint and where there are no further changes in address or any other details
Only relevant documents for updation of KYC as per existing instructions of the bank to be obtained and updated on CBS for ETB customers where there are changes in address or any other details.
Full set of KYC documents as per extant instructions is to be obtained and updated in CBS for ETB customers where there are changes in address or any other details.
However, if the loan application amount is above ₹ 2 lakhs, then copy of PAN to be obtained and updated in CBS, only for those applicants where PAN is not seeded in CBS in all the above-mentioned scenarios of SBI SGY.
PAN CARD
Not Mandatory
Mandatory
Income Requirement
Not stipulated
Max NAI is ₹ 3 Lakhs
Income Proof
Not Stipulated
Salary Slip, Salary Statement, 2 Yr form 16, Pension slip, PPO,2 Year ITR.
Documents by Vendor
Quotation/invoice, site feasibility report, vendor -customer agreement
Insurance of asset
Optional
Mandatory insurance charges to be borne by customer.
19. How can I apply for loan?
A. By visiting Bank’s website bank.sbi, under Loans, please go to SBI Surya Ghar Scheme and opt for Apply Now.
Alternatively, you can register first at
https://pmsuryaghar.gov.in
and then apply for loan at
https://www.jansamarth.in
20. If I have some doubts/ need clarifications, whom shall I contact?
A. You may speak to our contact center at 18001234 or 18002100 or 1800112211. You may also send a mail to
cm4.retailloans@sbi.co.in
with a copy to
dgmecom.pbbu@sbi.co.in
.
Customer's Journey Guide
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Friday, 13-02-2026