About Us
State Bank Institute of Rural Development (SBIRD) an ISO 21001:2018 Certified Institute is an Apex Training Institute of State Bank of India.
State Bank of India, the premier commercial Bank of India, has been in the forefront of rural banking and financial inclusion by extending financial support in accelerating the rural economy through its 15000 plus rural branches located across the country. The ground level experience has helped us to document and gain expertise in the rural operations. The capacity building for developing expertise and honing the requisite skills for Rural Banking and Financial Inclusion is being done through SBIRD located at Hyderabad in a lush green campus with state-of-the-art facilities for learning, research, and collaborations and meeting the standards of ‘IGBC Green Building Norms’ India is at an inflection point of becoming self-reliant (Atmanirbhar) and with major thrust on development of infrastructure for agriculture and allied activities, promoting innovations in post-harvest ecosystem and technology diffusion, the challenge is to build both functional and behavioural capabilities.
With the ground level experience of operations, expertise in the domain of agriculture and allied activities and in imparting knowledge, developing skills especially to the functionaries operating in the rural banking, micro finance and financial inclusion, we have been building capacities for the last four decades and have so far trained over hundred thousand employees of the Bank, Regional Rural Banks, Commercial and Private Banks in India, conducted various workshops for organizations in the SAARC region, exchange visits of Students and Bankers from Asia and Africa.
Our institute is ideal to conduct workshops; training programs either choosing from our regular course catalogue or design/customize the course content for the target group by collaboration. Our faculty is a group of experienced practicing bankers with excellent academic background
To prove the motto- “Seeing is believing”, and learning on the field, SBIRD has various demo activities for practical demonstration to the participants.
Vegetable and flower cultivation in Poly House, Green House
Vermicompost Unit, Panchagavya Unit
A live Watershed
Drip & Sprinkler Irrigation Systems
Hydroponics, Vertical Garden, Aroma and Medicinal Plants Garden
Extraction of Essential Oil
Mushroom Cultivation
Vision Statement
To be a Premier Institution committed to Training and Research in Rural Development
Objectives
To equip the Bankers with the skills and knowledge.
To provide orientation required for rural banking.
To sensitize the bankers to the rural environment
Training Methodology
It includes lectures, group discussions, role plays, audio-visual aids, case studies, observation in demo plots on the campus, structured exercises coupled with field visits.
Shri G V Sastry, (General Manager and Director)
Shri G.V. Sastry, General Manager & Director, SBIRD, Hyderabad joined the Bank in the year 1988 is an M.B.A. (Finance), CAIIB. The Official has successfully held many important assignments in the Bank. He was Regional Manager at Vijayawada & Visakhapatnam and DGM at Corporate Centre and SAMG. Before taking over charge as GM (SBIRD) he worked as Senior Faculty at our State Bank Staff College Hyderabad. Being a Senior Executive of the Bank he has shown his great experience and grooming the young talents of the Bank. Specialized in advance portfolio for the business development of the Bank.
Shri Sastry is a well known writer and Singer. He researched on great legend Annamacharya’s Sankeerthanas and their analysis in connection to Indian epics. He wrote 23 books, detailing the meaning of Annamacharya’s lyrics.
Management Team - The Director, SBIRD is supported by a Management Team comprising of DGMs :
Shri R Balaji, Deputy General Manager (Academics)
Shri R Balaji, DGM have more than 28 years of bank experience in varied roles as Regional Manager, AGM RACPC, AGM RASMECC, Branch Head and Faculty.
The official is Post Graduate in MBA, M Sc (Information Technology ) and Certified Information Systems Auditor CISA from ISACA USA.
Shri Mukesh Kumar Kotiyal, Deputy General Manager (Research & Administration)
Shri Mukesh Kotiyal, a Postgraduate in Applied Economics has joined the Bank in 1994 as Probationary Officer. He worked in various branches including Rural and Semi-Urban. He worked in IAD as AGM-IA and previously as DGM (BP&M) in ABU & GSS at Corporate Centre. He has a vast experience in strategy making and performance monitoring. His Hobbies are reading, listening music and walking.
Faculty
Shri Ch Krishna, CM (Faculty)
Mr. CH Krishna,  has completed his M.Sc. in Microbiology from Kakatiya University Campus. and CAIIB from IIBF. He is a Certified Insurance facilitator, Specified Person. Apart from this he holds certification in AMFI, MSME (IIBF), and Ethics in Banking  (IIBF).Mr. Krishna joined the State Bank of India in January 2009. Over the course of more than 16 years of service, he has held various roles, including serving as a Branch Manager for 6 years, along with several other assignments.
Shri Varun MS, CM (Faculty)
Mr. Varun M S , joined the bank as Single window operator in October 2009. He is a postgraduate in Physics and also, he has taken B.Ed. He has been promoted to officer cadre in year 2012. He is having sufficient branch experience and has continuously worked as branch head for 4 branches since 2016. Prior to joining SBIRD he was heading the Vadakara branch for last one year.
Mr. Sharanabasappa Basapur CM (Faculty)
Mr. Sharanabasappa Basapur, Chief Manager and Faculty, joined the bank as a Probationary Officer in March 2011. He holds a bachelor’s degree in biotechnology (B.E.) and is a CAIIB from IIBF.With over 14 years of rich and diverse experience in the banking sector, He has served in various capacities across Retail Banking, Banking Operations, and Agricultural Credit. .In addition to his core banking expertise, he is a certified Mutual Fund Distributor under NISM and a Certified Insurance Facilitator for SBI Life Insurance.
Sh. Uttam Kumar, (AGM, Faculty)
Uttam Kumar had joined State Bank of India as Probationary Officer in 2002. He has wide experience in different roles such as Agri. Field Officer, SME Field Officer, Chief Manager (Corporate Salary Package), Branch Head etc. Prior to joining SBIRB, he worked as AGM (PBBU), Local Head Office, Thiruvanthapuram.
Srinivasu Lingampalli, (AGM Faculty)
Shri  Srinivasu Lingampalli, AGM Faculty, had joined the Bank in July 1998 as a cashier/clerk  and elevated to officer cadre in December 2003. He is a Post Graduate in Commerce, Marketing and Finance. He is having ample operational experience as he has continuously worked as Branch Head for 8 branches since 2006 including foreign assignment for 4 years in U.A.E. Before joining SBIRB he worked as Regional Manager for Chittoor Region. He has reported at SBIRB on 10.08.2022.
Pragyan Jyoti Sahoo, (AGM & Faculty)
Pragyan Jyoti Sahoo is an MBA (Finance) and CAIIB. She joined State Bank of India as Probationary Officer in 2008. She has worked extensively in Commercial Credit Group. She has served in various assignments covering domains AGR, PER, MSME and High Value Advances. Prior to joining SBIRB, she worked as RACC Head , at RBO Pune.
P Koteswara Rao, (AGM & Faculty)
Puvvada Koteswararao, Chief Manager & Faculty, joined the bank as a Probationary Officer in May 2009. He has done his MBA. Prior to joining SBIRB, he worked as a faculty at SBILD Masulipatnam. In the past, he worked in Mid-Corporate Group, Retail & Digital Banking Divisions of the bank in various capacities.
Shri V. Krishna Mohan, AGM (faculty)
Joined the Bank in 1988 and promoted to Officers cadre in 1997 as Trainee Officer, Completed  B.Sc from Andhra University.
Completed CAIIB, and several certificate courses from IIBF such as Advanced Wealth Management Programme (formerly  PGDFA), KYC/AML, BCSBI, SME for Bankers, Trade Finance, Diploma in House Loan Advising etc.
Completed Diploma in Cyber Law from Bombay Law University.
Worked in all categories of branches Rural, Semi-urban, Urban and metro including Local Head Office and RACPC
Worked as Branch Head for 4 branches.
Worked as faculty and BS Trainer in SBILD,  Vizianagaram for 4 years.
Worked as Regional Manager of Ongole region for 3 years and Regional Manager of FIMM region for one year..
He joined SBIRB in July 2023 as faculty.
Shri Shyam Dhar Dubey, (AGM Faculty)
Mr. Shyam Dhar Dubey had joined the State Bank of Indore in September 1999 as a Probationary Officer. He is a Post-Graduate in Electronics & Communication from Banaras Hindu University (BHU) and CAIIB. He completed the Certificate Examination in IT Security, Foreign Exchange Facility for Individual, Customer Service and Banking Codes and Standards, Trade Finance and AML & KYC from IIBF. He has held Branch Manager assignments in each scale for 3 years in 6 Branches for 15 years. He also held operational assignments as Field Officer, Desk Officer (Advances), Chief Manager (Credit & NPA) and AGM (Agri, Retail & GSS).
Sh. K A V S Prasad, (Chief Manager, Faculty)
K A V S Prasad is a Masters in Rural Studies, MBA (Marketing & Finance), M.Phil. (Business Management) and CAIIB. He started his career in a Regional Rural Bank (RRB) in the year 1991. Later he joined State Bank of Hyderabad in 1992. Mr. Prasad has served in various assignments viz., Agri. Field Officer, Branch Manager, SME Divisional Manager, Faculty etc. He has served in various assignments covering domains AGR, PER & MSME.
Sudhir Kumar Jha, (CM Faculty)
Shri Sudhir Kumar Jha joined the Bank as Probationary Officer in the year 2007. He is a Graduate in Physics and has completed the courses of CAIIB both parts, Advance Wealth Management course (formerly PGDFA) through IIBF. He has rich experience of banking. He has worked as Branch head in different category of branch for 9 years.
Anupama Kar, (CM Faculty)
Anupama Kar, Chief Manager & Faculty joined the bank as a Probationary Officer in June 2006. She has done her post-graduation in Horticulture. Prior to joining SBIRB, she has worked in different setups in NBG in various capacities.
Syam Prasad Sitra, (CM Faculty)
Shri Syam Prasad Sitra, Chief Manager & Faculty joined the bank in the 1996 as clerk cum cashier. He has done post-graduation in MSc Zoology. He has also completed CAIIB Both parts. Prior to joining SBIRB, he worked as CM, at Branch, RBO level and other capacities in NBG group.
Shri Ajay Shashikant Mahajan, Chief Manager (Faculty)
Shri Ajay Shashikant Mahajan, Chief Manager (Faculty), joined at SBIRB on 20.09.2022, is a graduate in Dairy Technology. He has completed M.B.A. (Banking & Finance) from IGNOU.  He has also completed CAIIB, CIF from SBI General Insurance. He has joined the Bank as Probationary Officer on 01.03.2011. He has worked as Branch Manager at Pimpalgaon SAB, Vijaynagar Chowk and Manager Sanction at RACC, Kudal. He has also worked as Chief Manager at Akola Branch.
Shri Dhiraj Kumar, Chief Manager (Faculty)
Shri Dhiraj Kumar, Chief Manager (Faculty), joined State Bank of Hyderabad as a Probationary Officer in 2006. He is a Graduate (BSc Math Hons) and has also done master’s in business administration in Banking & Finance. He has done CAIIB (both parts) and Moody’s Certificate in Commercial Credit (CICC).
He has over 17 years of experience in banking operations, majority of which is in credit domain. He has worked as Field officer (SME), Branch Manager and RMME. He has also worked at Agriculture Commercial Branch, Pune, where he has vast experience in NBFC funding through Portfolio Purchase and Co lending business apart from investment credit.
He joined SBIRB In August 2023 as faculty.
Shri Arun Singhatiya, Chief Manager (Faculty)
Mr. Arun Singhatiya, Chief Manager (Faculty), joined the bank as Probationary Officer in May 2009. He is MBA (Banking & Finance), B.V.Sc. & A.H. (Gold Medallist),CAIIB. He also holds the Certification in Cyber Crime & Prevention of Frauds, IT Security, Certified Information System Banker, Digital Banking, AML & KYC, Customer Service and BCSBI, Foreign Exchange Operations, Certified Treasury Professional, Risk in Financial Services (CISI London).
During various assignments in the Bank, he worked as Field Officer, Deputy Manager (Advances) at RBO, Branch Manager in two Rural Branches, Manager (Loan Processing Cell), Support Officer in team YONO (Digital Transformation & e-Commerce Department), Chief Manager (Branch Head)and Chief Manager (Sales & Business Development) at Ahmedabad. He has joined the Team SBIRB on 10/07/2023
Research Officers
Ms. N. Vani (Chief Manager, Research)
N. Vani is a Post graduate in Food Science and Nutrition from Manasa Gangothri, Mysuru joined the bank in 1999, has varied experience in heading different category of branches in Rural, Semi Urban and Urban Centers. Her areas of interest include Agriculture banking, Financial Inclusion & Micro Finance and awarded for financing highest number of Self-help group linkages in the Module by the Circle Head. She is keenly interested in latest developments and emerging trends in Rural development and Government initiatives for their implementation. She is voluntarily involved in several “Swachatha Abhiyan” initiatives.
Ms. Sakshi Paritosh (Manager, Research)
Ms. Sakshi Paritosh is a 2012 batch Probationary Officer with a B.A. in Economics and an MBA in Banking Management. She also holds a CAIIB Part II qualification and brings over 13 years of diverse experience in the banking sector. Her areas of expertise include Banking Research, SME Credit, Retail Banking, Operations, and Agricultural Credit. She has held key roles such as Branch Head, Manager–Sanctions (SME), and Credit Support Officer. In recognition of her outstanding performance, she was honoured as the Best Banker by the District Collector of Medchal-Malkajgiri district, Telangana. She holds multiple professional certifications across diverse areas of banking and finance. These include Corporate Credit from CRISIL, Commercial Credit (CICC) from Moody’s, Foreign Exchange, Retail Credit, IT Security from IIBF. She is also certified as a Market Research Analyst by Vskills and as a Mutual Fund Distributor under NISM.
Mr. Srikanth Reddy Gantla (Chief Manager, Research)
Sri Gantla Srikanth Reddy is a Masters in MBA (Marketing & HR) and CAIIB. He started his career in SBI as a Cashier/Clerk in 2010 and elevated to Officer Cadre in November 2013. Mr. Reddy has served in various assignments in bank like Branch Manager, Manager Sanctions, RACC head. He is a Certified CIF, SP and member of AMFI.
Courses Offered
Courses Offered: In Agriculture
Sl No
Course Name
1
Investment credit in Agriculture
2
Agri Finance Program for Branch Managers
3
Exposure Program on Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) for senior officers
4
New Business Models in Agri finance
5
Emerging areas in Agriculture/ Agri. Allied activities
6
Orientation program on Asset Quality & NPA Management
7
Medicinal & Aromatic plants – Scope for Commercial Finance
8
Financing of Commercial Poultry
9
Programme on Commercial Dairy Finance
Courses Offered : In Financial Inclusion & Micro Finance
Sl No
Course Name
1
TTT Program for Business Correspondents on FI.
2
Advanced Program on Micro Finance, Financial Inclusion and Livelihoods Finance
3
Advanced Program on Mudra Loans: Models of Finance
4
Foundation program on Micro finance and financial inclusion
Nomination
Please send attached nomination form through mail to
dgmra.sbird@sbi.co.in
with all details
(Nomination Form)
Modes of Payment
Through NEFT / RTGS to our account:
Beneficiary Name : SBIRD Collection A/c
Account No. : 10222811059
Bank / Branch : SBI, HUC Branch
IFSC Code: SBIN0005916
(Please note UTR No. for nomination form)
Contact Us
For any general queries regarding the training programmes, the contact details will be as under:
For Training related information :
Email ID :
dgmra.sbird@sbi.co.in
Contact No. :
91 40 23463332
For Payment related queries :
Contact No. :
+91 40 23463304
Location Map
State Bank Institute of Rural Development
Opp. Hyderabad Central University
Lingampally
Hyderabad – Telangana
PIN – 500 019
Email: director.sbirb@sbi.co.in
Contact No. +91 40 23463322
Google Map :
View Map
Infrastructure
Participants’ Voice
Phase II PO Program : “The Faculty, Infrastructure, hospitality and delivery of topics are par excellent at SBIRB. They expressed that the program has enhanced their confidence levels and changed their perception at SME credit.”
Investment Credit to Nepal SBI Bank Ltd., Officials : “The officials who attended the program commended the delivery and coverage of topics. The participants have appreciated the faculty and expressed their confidence that the program would definitely help them in achieving agriculture credit target given by Nepal Central Bank.”
Participants who were first time BMs and heading Agri Intensive branches : “The participants have expressed that their level of understanding in agriculture lending, importance of lending to agriculture and their perception about rural business has been totally changed after attending the program.”
Executives of Business Correspondence : “The basics of banking knowledge shared by the faculty would definitely help them in training the Customer Service Providers in right perspective. Further, the knowledge imparted on the importance of Customer Service and Customer awareness would definitely sub serve the Micro objective of Financial Inclusion initiatives of Government of India.”