SBI DD Charges and Cancellation Fees 2026
Demand Drafts (DDs) are a secure and reliable method of transferring money from one bank account to another. They offer a host of advantages, including a high degree of safety, wide acceptance, and no transaction limits, making them one of the most popular payment methods. One of India's largest banks, the State Bank of India, provides demand draft services, allowing anyone to issue and receive DD payments. 

Before you start using demand drafts to issue payments, you need to be aware of the charges involved in issuing DDs and cancellations. In the following sections, we will cover SBI DD charges for 2026. 

SBI Demand Draft Details
Here are other important details you need to know about SBI’s demand drafts: 

Details Required for Issuance

To issue a demand draft with SBI, you will need to enter the following information: 

The bank’s branch name and details 
The name of the individual or company authorising payments 
The date of issuance 
The amount payable 
The name of the bank where it’s redeemable 
Signature
Validity

Demand drafts are valid for up to 3 months from the date of their issuance. Afterwards, the DD becomes invalid. The SBI DD charge for revalidation is currently Rs. 200 plus GST. 

Issuance Process

Customers can issue a demand draft at any SBI bank branch or online through the bank’s official net banking portal. They can collect the DD from a branch and dispatch it to the beneficiary. You can also courier the demand draft to your registered address, and the courier charges will be levied on you. 

You can register demand drafts from any of your SBI accounts, including savings accounts, current accounts, cash credit accounts or overdraft accounts. You will get a reference number and printed advice upon successful issuance.

Cancellation Process

You cannot cancel an SBI DD online; instead, you must visit your nearest SBI bank branch to start the cancellation process. If you have paid for the demand draft in cash, you need to submit the original demand draft to the bank along with its cash receipt. If you have paid from your account, you need to fill out a DD cancellation form and submit it with the original draft. 

SBI DD charges for cancellation will apply, and you will receive a refund after these charges are deducted. Note that it will be difficult to receive a refund if you don’t have the original demand draft. 

SBI DD Charges 
The following SBI demand draft charges apply for the issuance of IOI (inter-office accounts), which includes demand drafts and banker's cheques at any SBI bank branch:  

Demand Draft Issue 	Amount
For a DD of up to Rs. 5,000	Rs. 25 including GST 
For a DD worth over Rs. 5,000 and up to Rs. 10,000  	Rs. 50 including GST 
For a DD worth over Rs. 10,000 and up to Rs. 1,00,000 	Rs. 5 including GST for every Rs. 1,000 (minimum charge- Rs. 60)
DDs above Rs. 1,00,000 	Rs. 4 including GST for every Rs. 1,000 (minimum charge- Rs. 600, maximum charge- Rs. 2,000 including GST) 
IOI demand draft charges 	Same as above 
Postage and courier charges 	Rs. 50 plus GST in addition to the above charges
SBI DD Cancellation Charges
The following are the SBI demand draft cancellation charges applicable for different customers and accounts:

Draft Amount 	Cancellation Charge Amount 
Up to Rs. 500	NA 
Above Rs. 500 and up to Rs. 5,000	Rs. 25 plus GST 
Above Rs. 5,000 and up to Rs. 10,000 	Rs. 50 plus GST 
Above Rs. 10,000	Rs. 100 plus GST 
IOI Demand Draft Charges 	Same as the above charges 
Cancellation and Issuance of Duplicate IOI 	Rs. 200 plus GST 
Waiver of SBI DD Cancellation Charges 
For certain accounts, the State Bank of India does not levy cancellation charges (up to a certain limit for some accounts). 

For All Salary Package Accounts: No cancellation charge subject to no restrictions on free drafts and DD amount
Shaurya Family Pension Account: No cancellation charge with no restrictions on the number of drafts or DD amount if issued to the family pension account
Diamond and Platinum Variant Current Account Customers: Unlimited free drafts
Gold Variant Current Account Customers: 50 free drafts per month
Shubharambh-Startup Current Account: 10 demand drafts free per month
SBI’s demand drafts allow any customer to transfer funds securely without the risk of counterfeiting or bounced payments. You can apply for demand drafts online at SBI’s official internet banking portal or your nearest SBI branch at nominal costs. 

You can visit the branch to collect your requested DD or opt to send it to the receiver through courier services. As SBI DD charges and cancellation fees are nominal, it’s a convenient way of sending and receiving funds. 

Related Demand Draft Articles:
Axis Bank DD Charges and Cancellation Fees 
HDFC Bank DD Charges and Cancellation Fees
Canara Bank DD Charges and Cancellation Fees
ICICI Bank DD Charges and Cancellation Fees 
Bank of Baroda DD Charges and Cancellation Fees
Punjab Bank DD Charges and Cancellation Fees 
IOB DD Charges and Cancellation Fees

Related SBI Articles:
1. SBI Bank Balance Check Number  
2. SBI Credit Card Customer Care Number
3. SBI ATM Card Block - How To Block SBI ATM Card?
4.SBI RuPay Credit Card
5. Close SBI Credit Card - How To Close SBI Credit Card?
6. Unblock SBI Credit Card - How To Unblock SBI Credit Card?
7. How To Block SBI Credit Card?
8. SBI ATM Withdrawal Limit For Different Types Of SBI Debit Cards
9. SBI Car Loan Customer Care (24x7 Toll Free) Number
10. How to Check and Download SBI Loan Statement?
11. How to Pay SBI Credit Card Bill?
12. How To Redeem SBI Credit Card Reward Points
13. SBI Debit Card Charges Withdrawal Charges Per Year
14. SBI Credit Card Status
15. SBI Cashback Credit Card Benefits
16. SBI RuPay Debit Card
17. SBI Mini Statement

Frequently Asked Questions
How much does SBI charge for DD?

SBI’s DD charges range from Rs. 25 for demand drafts worth up to Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 2,000 (maximum) for demand drafts priced above Rs. 1,00,000.

What is the maximum limit of DD in SBI?

If you pay by cash, the maximum limit allowed by SBI is Rs. 49,999, as per Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines. However, if you pay via a cheque, there is no maximum limit on the amount you can pay with a demand draft.

What are the DD charges in SBI for 20000?

The SBI Bank DD charges for demand drafts of Rs. 20,000 are Rs. 5 per Rs. 1000 draft. Thus, the charge is Rs. 100, including GST, for a demand draft worth Rs. 20,000. 

What are the DD charges in SBI for 50000?

For a demand draft worth Rs. 50,000, the total issuance charge is Rs. 250, including GST. 

What are the DD charges in SBI for 5 lakhs?

To issue an SBI demand draft worth Rs. 5 lakh, you will have to pay the maximum DD charge, which is Rs. 2,000, including GST. 

What are the DD charges in SBI for 10 lakhs?

You will have to pay the maximum SBI demand draft charge, which is Rs. 2,000, including GST, for a DD of Rs. 10 lakh. 

What are the DD charges in SBI for 12 lakhs?

For an Rs. 12 lakh demand draft, you have to pay the maximum DD charge of Rs. 2,000, including GST. 

What are the DD charges in SBI for 50 lakhs?

For the Rs. 50 lakh demand draft, you have to pay the maximum DD charge of Rs. 2,000, including GST. 

What are the DD charges in SBI for 1 crore?

For a demand draft worth Rs. 1 crore, you have to pay the maximum DD charge limit, which is Rs. 2,000, including GST. 