FX-Retail - An electronic trading platform for buying or selling foreign exchange by retail customers of Banks
A trading platform is expected to provide the much-needed transparency and at the same time enhance competition and lead to better pricing for the customers. In this connection, FX-Retail has been rolled out by the Clearing Corporation of India Limited (CCIL).
FX-Retail provides for an anonymous and order driven dealing for Retail Customers wherein they can place orders and trade in the USD/INR currency pair.
FX-Retail platform can be accessed by any customer of the bank (through the website https://www.fxretail.co.in) who has a need to purchase or sell US Dollar against the Rupee for delivery on cash basis (same day), tom basis (next day) or spot basis (two days after date of transaction), subject to the following :
There is no cap on the number of transactions per customer during a day. The total amount of transactions of a customer shall be subject to the limit assigned by its bank.
The size of a single transaction is not allowed to exceed $5 million.
As per RBI directives, Banks may recover from customers, transaction and settlement charges levied by CCIL details of which are as under :
Particulars
Charges
One time Customer Registration Charges .
a. Individual
Rs 300 *
b. Non-Individual
Rs 1000*
Transaction Charges
a. Upto USD 50,000 in a day
No Charges
b. Above USD 50,000 in a day
0.0004% on the entire Transaction value in INR terms *
* GST is applicable on the above charges
RBI has also permitted Banks to charge their retail customers a pre-agreed flat fee towards administrative expenses. Customers may contact their home branch to ascertain details of Bank’s charges. Customers while registering on CCIL’s FX-Retail platform may note to mention State Bank of India as the Relationship Bank. Customers are requested to contact their Home Branch for submission of requisite documents for on-boarding . For more details about FX-Retail please visit CCIL’s website
(www.ccilindia.com)
.
Last Updated On : Saturday, 07-12-2019