Individuals living in the USA must have filed a FATCA form at some point. FATCA-related self-declaration is compulsory even for Indian citizens. 

This mandatory self-declaration to the U.S. federal tax authority has far-reaching implications for financial compliance in almost every country. Let’s learn more about it. 

Key Takeaways:

FATCA means the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act 
FATCA’s goal is to prevent non-reporting or under-reporting of foreign assets by U.S. taxpayers
India signed an Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with the U.S. in 2015. Indian Financial Institutions must comply with FATCA rules. 
It is mandatory for Indian citizens to self-declare their US tax connection to their respective banks and financial institutions. 
What is FATCA (Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act)?
The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) is a piece of the US legislation. It makes self-disclosure mandatory for banks and financial institutions with commercial/business relationships with any U.S. taxpayers, whether or not citizens. 

The U.S. Congress passed the bill in 2010 as part of the HIRE Act during the post-2008 recession. It is Title V of the HIRE Act. 

The HIRE Act provided incentives to businesses to hire unemployed workers. And FATCA was part of legislation that helped counter tax evasion, ensuring more tax revenue for the public exchequer.  

FACTA mandates that foreign financial institutions (FFIs) obtain self-disclosure from their account holders and report information about U.S. taxpayers. It ensures U.S. taxpayers correctly disclose their foreign assets.

Purpose and Objectives of FATCA
The principal purpose of FATCA is to detect and counter tax evasion and money laundering. The key objects behind the legislation are:

Automate data exchange between the federal tax agency and foreign financial institutions
Ensure reporting of foreign assets of U.S. taxpayers 
Building a transparent global financial system 
FATCA Compliance Requirements
FATCA Compliance is broadly categorised into two segments,

For foreign financial institutions 
For individual U.S. taxpayers 
FFIs are required to:

Obtain a GIIN (Global Intermediary Identification Number). 
Perform due diligence 
Report account details of U.S. taxpayers to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) 
Individual U.S. taxpayers are expected to report their foreign assets (if any) by filing Form 8938 with their annual tax return. Any mismatch of disclosure between FFIs and individual taxpayers can be a potential signal of tax evasion. 

FATCA Declaration and Forms
Compliance with FATCA disclosure norms requires filing the following forms:

Form W-9 - This is for certification of TIN (Taxpayer Identification Number) by U.S. citizens and U.S. resident taxpayers. 
Form W-8BEN - U.S. charges 30% withholding tax on U.S.-based incomes, e.g., interests, dividends and other income from U.S.-sourced assets. Non-US residents willing to claim withholding tax at reduced rates are required to file this form to certify that they are not U.S. taxpayers.  
Form 8938 - It is the statutory "Statement of Specified Foreign Financial Assets". Every US taxpayer, citizen or resident, must file this form with their annual tax returns to the IRS. 
What is the FATCA Declaration in India?
The FATCA Declaration is the mandatory self-declaration form that every bank and financial institution in India requires applicants to complete and sign when opening accounts or making investments in Indian assets. The purpose is to determine whether an accountholder or investor is a U.S.-based person or a U.S. taxpayer. 

For the majority of Indians, it involves signing the declaration form stating that they are not U.S. taxpayers. 

For Indians with U.S. connections (having an address or place of birth in the U.S.), it is mandatory to disclose their TIN in the FATCA declaration. Financial institutions then report their financial statements to the US IRS. 

FATCA Compliance in India
FATCA Compliance in India is mandatory for financial institutions and individual taxpayers, as India has been a signatory to the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) Model 1 with the U.S. since 2015. 

Under this agreement, Indian financial institutions are not required to report directly to the IRS. Instead, they report to the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) in India. CBDT then shares the information with the IRS.  

Who is Required to File FATCA?
FATCA declaration in India clearly distinguishes between self-declaration and reporting to the tax authority. Not everyone is required to report to the U.S. tax authority. 

Self-declaration - it is mandatory for every account holder and investor in India. 
Filing Form 8938 - mandatory for U.S. citizens, U.S. residents and NRI US taxpayers holding more than $50,000 in Indian assets. 
Penalties for FATCA Non-Compliance
Indian citizens who refuse to self-declare: Indian financial institutions are required to freeze or close their accounts, or refuse to open them. Along with this, FIs can also report such accounts as "recalcitrant", which means difficult to control in a literal sense. 
U.S. taxpayers failing to report or file Form 8938 are liable to a penalty of $10,000. The penalty may go up to $50,000 for repeated non-disclosure. Additionally, a 40% penalty may be imposed for understating tax liability arising from undisclosed foreign assets.  
FATCA vs CRS (Common Reporting Standard)
CRS, or the Common Reporting Standard, is a globally recognised standard for the automatic transfer and exchange of financial information between sovereign tax authorities. There are over 100 participating countries in the CRS.

Feature	FATCA	CRS (Common Reporting Standard)
Origin	USA legislation 	Global Initiative
Scope	U.S. Persons holding assets abroad	Tax residents of all participating countries
Threshold	Asset value is higher than $50,000	No minimum threshold for reporting requirements 
Reporting to	IRS (USA) via the tax authority of respective countries 	Tax authorities of respective countries
Declaration	Mandatory for U.S. taxpayers 	Mandatory for tax residency in any other country.
Withholding Tax	30% withholding on non-compliant payments	Relies on local law penalties
Conclusion
FATCA is a global tax compliance framework designed to improve financial transparency and prevent tax evasion by U.S. taxpayers holding assets abroad. In India, all account holders and investors must complete a FATCA self-declaration, while individuals with U.S. tax connections may have additional reporting obligations. 

Understanding FATCA requirements helps investors stay compliant, avoid penalties, and ensure smooth banking and investment transactions.

Frequently Asked Questions
What is FATCA in India?


FATCA is a U.S. legislation. India is a signatory to the Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) Model 1 with the US. The Central Board of Direct Taxation in India requires Indian financial institutions to get a mandatory self-declaration from every account holder regarding their U.S. connection. 

Is FATCA only for us citizens?

Filing Form 8938 with the IRS under FATCA is mandatory for every U.S. taxpayer, citizen, and resident. Self-declaration is compulsory for any resident of participating countries. 

Is FATCA applicable to Indian citizens?

FATCA self-declaration is applicable to Indian citizens. 

Which FATCA annexure is required for an HUF?

HUFs are required to declare in the "Entity" or "Non-Individual" FATCA/CRS Annexure. 

What is RM in FATCA?


RM stands for Relationship Manager or branch staff in a financial institution handling accounts. This is applicable mostly to high-value accounts. FIs are required to get a declaration from RMs regarding their knowledge about U.S. connections of an accountholder. 

 

FATCA rules recognise a FI employee as RM if,

He or she is assigned explicitly to handle an account 
Advise accountholders on financial decisions 
Assist in providing financial services to accountholders 
Are FATCA details to be obtained for joint applicants?

Yes. Join applicants in an account are also required to self-declare as per FATCA. 

What are the reporting requirements under FATCA?


For US-reportable citizens, FIs are required to share the following information:

Identity: name, address and US TIN
Account number or folio number
Account balance as of the end of the calendar year
Income, including gross amount of interest, dividends, and other income credited to the account
Gross proceeds from the sale or redemption of property
How can organisations ensure FATCA compliance?


Financial Institutions must have a Global Intermediary Identification Number (GIIN) as part of registration under FATCA compliance. 
They need to establish and maintain a robust compliance handling framework and infrastructure to cover the entire workflow. It should cover client onboarding to mandatory annual reporting to CBDT. 
What is the difference between FATCA and CRS?


FATCA is a piece of U.S. legislation, while CRS is a global standard for data sharing between sovereign tax authorities participating under FATCA. 

FATCA
Inter Government A between India and US under FATCA

In 2010, USA enacted a law known as “Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act” (FATCA) with the objective of tackling tax evasion through obtaining information in respect of offshore financial accounts maintained by USA residents and citizens. The provisions of FATCA essentially provide for 30% withholding tax on US source payments made to Foreign Financial Institutions unless they enter into an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service (US IRS) to provide information about accounts held with them by USA persons or entities (firms/companies/trusts) controlled by USA persons. Since domestic laws of sovereign countries (including India) may not permit sharing of client confidential information by FIs directly with USA, USA has entered into Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with various countries. The IGA between India and USA was signed on 9 July, 2015.It provides that the Indian FIs will provide necessary information to the Indian tax authorities, which will then be transmitted to USA periodically. Under the IGA, USA will also provide substantial information about Indians having financial assets in USA.


F.No. 504/090/2007-FTD-I 
Government of India 
Ministry of Finance 
Department of Revenue 
Central Board of Direct Taxes 
(Foreign Tax & Tax Research Division) 
***** 
19th February, 2016 
Clarifications for implementation of FATCA and CRS 
Currency 
For the upcoming reporting in March 2016 and May 2016, all reporting has to 
be done in INR. For the reporting in 2017, Form 61B and Schema will be suitably 
modified to include a field for capturing type of currency 
New Fixed Deposit account as Preexisting Account 
2.1  
In banking system, there are procedures where Fixed Deposit (FD) can be 
opened by an existing customer who is having an existing saving bank account with 
the same financial institution, without any additional documentation. These fixed 
deposits are assigned separate account numbers from the existing saving bank 
account. Therefore, they are classified as new accounts by the banks.  
2.2 
During stakeholders consultations, representatives of financial institutions 
informed that in such cases, no additional documentation are obtained for these fixed 
deposits accounts  as they are  intrinsically related to existing saving bank account and 
all KYC documents are available for the existing saving bank account. 
2.3  
In these cases, where no additional documentation are required for certain FD 
accounts, financial institution may treat the new FD account as pre-existing account 
subject to the following conditions:  
a.  
the saving bank account is opened on or before 30.06.2014 in the case of 
FATCA  and 31.12.2015 in the case of CRS ; 
b. 
the due diligence requirements have already been carried out or are in 
the process of being carried out for the preexisting saving bank account and 
c.  
the accounts are treated as linked or as a single account or obligation for 
the purposes of applying any of the due diligence requirements and reporting. 
2.4  
The above situation will also be applicable to Auto sweep facility linked to 
existing saving bank account.  
1 | P a g e                                                                
Global Custodian and Local Custodian 
3.1  
It was submitted by financial institutions that majority of the accounts opened 
in India by foreign investors, including Foreign Portfolio Investor (FPl), are 
contracted through Global Custodians (GCs) who in turn appoint or contract with 
Local Sub Custodians in India to facilitate registration and investments of these 
foreign investors in India. Query was received whether Local Sub-custodian may 
apply due diligence procedure only on the GCs and not on the GCs end-clients.  
3.2 
It has been decided that Local Sub-custodian are required to carry out the due 
diligence on the accounts held by GC end-clients. However, for carrying out due 
diligence, the Local Sub-custodian may rely on the KYC/FATCA/CRS documentation 
done by GC for the account holders including the self-certification. Further, it may be 
clarified that the obligations for due diligence and reporting remain that of the Local 
Custodian who should also be able to access all documents in relation to an account 
holder.  
HUF 
4.1  
Several queries have been received regarding due diligence of HUF accounts. 
The issue is whether due diligence may be conducted either only on the Karta or on all 
coparceners alongwith Karta.  
4.2 
In this regard, it has been decided that for the purpose of compliance, an HUF 
account shall be treated as an entity account. The due diligence of HUF accounts will 
be same as prescribed under PMLA/ KYC procedures.  
NBFC 
5.1  
Queries have been received regarding reporting by NBFC whether they are 
depository institution or investment entity.  
5.2 
In this regard, it has been decided that an NBFC which accepts deposit in the 
course of a banking business or a similar business as mentioned in the  definition of 
depository institution will be considered as Depository Institution and will report 
accordingly. An NBFC which is working as investment entity, will report accordingly. 
Procedure for furnishing the report 
6. 
Presently the procedure for registration and submission of report under FATCA 
and CRS is as per Notification No. 4 dated 4th September, 2015 issued by the Principal 
Director General of Income Tax (Systems) which is available on the website of 
Income tax Department incometaxindia.gov.in.  However, the procedure for 
registration and submission of report is being revised and the same will be made 
available on the website referred above as and when rolled out. 
2 | P a g e                                                                

F.No. s04l 632120 1 
5-FT&TR-III( I )
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Revenue
Central Board of Direct Taxes
(Foreign Tax & Tax Research Division)
>|<****
Dated 26'h May, 2016
Subiect: Clarifications for implementation of FATCA and CRS-ree
Pursuant to the consultations held with Financial Institutions (FIs)
regarding implementation of FATCA and CRS, the following clarifications are
issued.
Obtaining Self-Certifi cation
2.I Financial institutions are in the process of carrying out the due diligence
of financial accounts and obtaining self-certification from the account holders.
Representatives of FIs have informed that there are large number of financial
accounts and it is practically very difficult to physically obtain the self
certification from the account holders. It has been requested to provide
alternative channels to obtain self-certification.
2.2 In view of the above, it has been decided that self-certification can also be
obtained through Internet Banking platform from the user account where the
customer has transaction rights.
Tax ldentification Number (TIN)
3.1 Several queries have been received on TIN. It is again clarified that TIN
is not required to be collected by the FIs if TIN (including its functional
equivalent) is not issued by the relevant country or territory outside India in
which the person is resident for tax purposes.
3-2 It is also clarified that TIN is not required to be collected by the FIs even
from a person (resident for tax purposes in a country or territory outside India )
who may be eligible to obtain a TIN (or the functional equivalent) in his country
or territory of residence, but has not yet obtained a TIN. Ho*.u.r, in this .ur.,
FIs may note down this fact and seek TIN from the person after he obtains the
same.
Account Balance/value
4'l 
As per Rules, account balance or value of the financial account has to be
reported. Queries have been received regarding account balance of a custodial
llPage
account. The custodial account of the customer maintained with the Depository/
Depository Participant/broker contains various kinds of securities. It has been
requested to issue valuation guidelines to determine the account balance/value
for the purpose of reporting.
4.2 In this regard, it has been decided that valuation of securities may be done
at the values regularly communicated by Depository (CDSLATSDL) to the
depository partic ipants/brokers.
Procedure for furnishing the report
5.1 In respect of the procedure for registration and submission of report under
FATCA and CRS, a new Notification No. 4 dated 06.04.2016 has been issued
by the Principal Director General of Income Tax (Systems) which is available
on the website of Income tax Department y114p1,-in-cometaxindia,gov.in-,
5.2 The Systems Directorate has also released a User Manual for
Registration, Upload & View of Form 6lB which can be found on
http_;llr:ncpme{axindiaefiling,gov,inleFiJing/Portal/StaticPDF/Registration*Uploa
d Form-61Fo,rm61B*Form ! 5CC,pdfl-O ,541-9367 604612912
(Gaurav Sharma)
Under Secretary, FT&TR-III( I )
2lPage

4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
SECTION 90 OF THE INCOME-TAX ACT, 1961 - DOUBLE TAXATION AGREEMENT - INTER
GOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT AND MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING (MOU)
BETWEEN GOVERNMENT OF INDIA AND GOVERNMENT OF USA TO IMPROVE
INTERNATIONAL TAX COMPLIANCE AND TO IMPLEMENT FOREIGN ACCOUNT TAX
COMPLIANCE ACT OF USA
NOTIFICATION NO.77/2015 [F.NO.500/137/2011-FTD-I]/SO. 2676(E), DATED 30-9-2015
Whereas, an Inter-Governmental Agreement and Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the
Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United States of America to improve
International Tax Compliance and to implement Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act of the United States
of America was signed at New Delhi on the 9th day of July, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as the said
Agreement and enclosed herewith as Annexure);
And whereas, the date of entry into force of the said Agreement is the 31st day of August, 2015, being the
date of notifications of completion of necessary internal procedures as required for entry into force of the
said Agreement in accordance with Paragraph 1 of Article 10 of the said Agreement;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961),
the Central Government hereby notifies that all the provisions of the said Agreement between the
Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United States of America for the exchange
of information with respect to taxes, as set out in the said Agreement, shall be given effect to in the Union of
India with effect from the 31st August, 2015, that is, the date of entry into force of the said Agreement.
ANNEXURE
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United States
of America to Improve International Tax Compliance and to Implement 
FATCA
Whereas, the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United States of America
(each, a "Party," and together, the "Parties") desire to conclude an agreement to improve international tax
compliance through mutual assistance in tax matters based on an effective infrastructure for the automatic
exchange of information;
Whereas, Article 28 of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the United States of America for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of
Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income, together with a related protocol (the 'Convention"), done at
New Delhi on September 12, 1989 authorizes the exchange of information for tax purposes, including on an
automatic basis;
Whereas, the United States of America enacted provisions commonly known as the Foreign Account Tax
Compliance Act ("
FATCA"), which introduce a reporting regime for financial institutions with respect to
certain accounts;
Whereas, the Government of India is supportive of the underlying policy goal of 
FATCA to improve tax
compliance;
Whereas, 
FATCA has raised a number of issues, including that Indian financial institutions may not be able
to comply with certain aspects of 
FATCA due to domestic legal impediments;
1/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
Whereas, the Government of the United States of America collects information regarding certain accounts
maintained by U.S. financial institutions held by residents of India and is ommitted to exchanging such
information with the Government of India and pursuing equivalent levels of exchange;
Whereas, the Parties are committed to working together over the longer term towards achieving common
reporting and due diligence standards for financial institutions;
Whereas, the Government of the United States of America acknowledges the need to coordinate the
reporting obligations under 
FATCA with other U.S. tax reporting obligations jf Indian financial institutions
to avoid duplicative reporting;
Whereas, an intergovernmental approach to 
FATCA implementation would address legal impediments and
reduce burdens for Indian financial institutions;
Whereas. the Parties desire to conclude an agreement to improve international tax compliance ind provide
for the implementation of 
FATCA based on domestic reporting and reciprocal automatic exchange pursuant
to the Convention, and subject to the confidentialitv and other protections provided for therein, including the
provisions limiting the use of the information exchanged under the Convention
Now therefore the Parties has agreed as follows
ARTICLE 1
DEFINITIONS
I. For purposes of this agreement and any annexes thereto-("Agreement"), the following terms shall have the
meanings set forth below:
(a) The term "United States" means the United States of America, including the States thereof, and,
when used in a geographical sense, means the territory of the United States of America, including
inland waters, the air space, the territorial sea thereof and any maritime area beyond the territorial
sea within which the United States may exercise sovereign rights or jurisdiction in accordance
with international law; the term, however, does not include the U.S. Territories. Any reference to
a "State" of the United States includes the District of Columbia.
(b) The term "U.S. Territory" means American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the U.S. Virgin Islands.
(c) The term "IRS" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
(d) The term "India" means the Republic of India, and when used in a geographical sense, means the
territory of India and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other
maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdiction, according to the
Indian law and in accordance with international law. including the U.N. Convention on the Law
of the Sea.
(e) The term "Partner Jurisdiction" means a jurisdiction that has in effect an agreement with the
United States to facilitate the implementation of 
FATCA. The [RS shall publish a list identifying
all Partner Jurisdictions.
(f) The term "Competent Authority" means:
(1) in the case of the United States, the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate: and
(2) in the case of India, the Central Government in the Ministry of Finance (Department of
Revenue) or their authorized representative.
(g) The term "Financial Institution" means a Custodial Institution, a Depository Institution, an
Investment Entity, or a Specified Insurance Company.
(h) The term "Custodial Institution" means any Entity that holds, as a substantial portion of its
business, financial assets for the account of others. An entity holds financial assets for the
account of others as a substantial portion of its business if the entity's gross income attributable to
the holding of financial assets and related financial services equals or exceeds 20 percent of the
2/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
entity's gross income during the shorter of: (1) the three-year period that ends on December 31
(or the final day of a non-calendar year accounting period) prior to the year in which the
determination is being made; or (ii) the period during which the entity has been in existence.
(i) The term "Depository Institution" means any Entity that accepts deposits in the ordinary course
of a banking or similar business.
(j) The term "Investment Entity" means any Entity that conducts as a business (or is managed by an
entity that conducts as a business) one or more of the following activities or operations for or on
behalf of a customer:
(1) trading in money market instruments (cheques, bills, certificates of deposit, derivatives,
etc.); foreign exchange; exchange, interest rate and index instruments; transferable
securities; or commodity futures trading;
(2) individual and collective portfolio management; or
(3) otherwise investing, administering, or managing funds or money on behalf of other persons.
This subparagraph 1(j) shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with similar language set forth
in the definition of "financial institution" in the Financial Action Task Force Recommendations.
(k) The term "Specified Insurance Company" means any Entity that is an insurance company (or the
holding company of an insurance company) that issues, or is obligated to make payments with
respect to. a Cash Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract.
(l) The term "Indian Financial Institution" means (i) any Financial Institution resident in India, but
excluding any branch of such Financial Institution that is located outside India, and (ii) any
branch of a Financial Institution not resident in India, if such branch is located in India.
(m) The term "Partner Jurisdiction Financial Institution" means (i) any Financial Institution
established in a Partner Jurisdiction, but excluding any branch of such Financial Institution that is
located outside the Partner Jurisdiction, and (ii) any branch of a Financial Institution not
established in the Partner Jurisdiction, if such branch is located in the Partner Jurisdiction.
(n) The term "Reporting Financial Institution" means a Reporting Indian Financial Institution or a
Reporting U.S. Financial Institution, as the context requires.
(o) The term "Reporting Indian Financial Institution" means any Indian financial Institution that is
not a Non-Reporting Indian Financial Institution.
(p) The term "Reporting L .S. Financial Institution" means (i) any Financial Institution that is
resident in the United States, but excluding any branch of such Financial Institution that is
located outside the United States, and (ii) any branch of a Financial Institution not resident in the
United States, if such branch is located in the United States, provided that the Financial
Institution or branch has control, receipt, or custody of income with respect to which information
is required to be exchanged under subparagraph (2)(b) of Article 2 of this Agreement.
(q) The term "Non-Reporting Indian Financial Institution" means any Indian Financial Institution, or
other Entity resident in India, that is described in Annex II as a Non-Reporting Indian Financial
Institution or that otherwise qualifies as a deemed-compliant FFI or an exempt beneficial owner
under relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations in effect on the date of signature of this Agreement.
(r) The term "Nonparticipating Financial Institution" means a nonparticipating FFI. as that term is
defined in relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations, but does not include an Indian Financial
Institution or other Partner Jurisdiction Financial Institution other than a Financial Institution
treated as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution pursuant to subparagraph 2(b) of Article 5 of
this Agreement or the corresponding provision in an agreement between the United States and a
Partner Jurisdiction.
(s) The term "Financial Account" means an account maintained by a Financial Institution, and
includes:
(1) in the case of an Entity that is a Financial Institution solely because it is an Investment
Entity, any equity or debt interest (other than interests that are regularly traded on an
3/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
established securities market) in the Financial Institution;
(2) in the case of a Financial Institution not described in subparagraph l(s)(1) of this Article,
any equity or debt interest in the Financial Institution (other than interests that are regularly
traded on an established securities market), if (i) the value of the debt or equity interest is
determined, directly or indirectly. primarily by reference to assets that give rise to U.S.
Source Withholdable Payments, and (ii) the class of interests was established with a purpose
of avoiding reporting in accordance with this Agreement; and
(3) any Cash Value Insurance Contract and any Annuity Contract issued or maintained by a
Financial Institution, other than a non-investment-linked, nontransferable immediate life
annuity that is issued to an individual and monetizes a pension or disability benefit provided
under an account that is excluded, from the definition of Financial Account in Annex II.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Financial Account'" does not include any account that
is excluded from the definition of Financial Account in Annex II. For purposes of this
Agreement, interests are "regularly traded" if there is a meaningful volume of trading with
respect to the interests on an ongoing basis, and an "established securities market" means an
exchange that is officially recognized and supervised by a governmental authority in which the
market is located and that has a meaningful annual value of shares traded on the exchange. For
purposes of this subparagraph l(s), an interest in a Financial Institution is not "regularly traded"
and shall be treated as a Financial Account if the holder of the interest (other than a Financial
Institution acting as an intermediary) is registered on the books of such Financial Institution. The
preceding sentence will not apply to interests first registered on the books of such Financial
Institution prior to July 1, 2014, and with respect to interests first registered on the books of such
Financial Institution on or after July 1, 2014, a Financial Institution is not required to apply the
preceding sentence prior to January 1, 2016.
(t) The term "Depository Account" includes any commercial, checking, savings, time, or thrift
account, or an account that is evidenced by a certificate of deposit, thrift certificate, investment
certificate, certificate of indebtedness, or other similar instrument maintained by a Financial
Institution in the ordinary course of a banking or similar business. A Depository Account also
includes an amount held by an insurance company pursuant to a guaranteed investment contract
or similar agreement to pay or credit interest thereon.
(u) The term "Custodial Account" means an account (other than an Insurance Contract or Annuity
Contract) for the benefit of another person that holds any financial instrument or contract held for
investment (including, but not limited to. a share or stock in a corporation, a note. bond,
debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness, a currency or commodity transaction, a credit
default swap, a swap based upon a nonfinancial index, a notional principal contract, an Insurance
Contract or Annuity Contract, and any option or other derivative instrument).
(v) The term "Equity Interest" means, in the case of a partnership that is a Financial Institution, either
a capital or profits interest in the partnership. In the case of a trust that is a Financial Institution,
an Equity Interest is considered to be held by any person treated as a settlor or beneficiary of all
or a portion of the trust, or any other natural person exercising ultimate effective control over the
trust. A Specified U.S. Person shall be treated as being a beneficiary of a foreign trust if such
Specified U.S. Person has the right to receive directly or indirectly (for example, through a
nominee) a mandatory distribution or may receive, directly or indirectly, a discretionary
distribution from the trust.
(w) The term "Insurance Contract" means a contract (other than an Annuity Contract) under which
the issuer agrees to pay an amount upon the occurrence of a specified contingency involving
mortality, morbidity, accident, liability, or property risk.
(x) The term "Annuity Contract" means a contract under which the issuer agrees to make payments
for a period of time determined in whole or in part by reference to the life expectancy of one or
more individuals. The term also includes a contract that is considered to be an Annuity Contract
in accordance with the law, regulation, or practice of the jurisdiction in which the contract was
issued, and under which the issuer agrees to make payments for a term of years.
4/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
(y) The term "Cash Value Insurance Contract" means an Insurance Contract (other than an indemnity
reinsurance contract between two insurance companies) that has a Cash Value greater than
$50,000.
(z) The term "Cash Value" means the greater of (i) the amount that the policyholder is entitled to
receive upon surrender or termination of the contract (determined without reduction for any
surrender charge or policy loan), and (ii) the amount the policyholder can borrow under or with
regard to the contract. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Cash Value" does not include an
amount payable under an Insurance Contract as:
(1) a personal injury or sickness benefit or other benefit providing indemnification of an
economic loss incurred upon the occurrence of the event insured against:
(2) a refund to the policyholder of a previously paid premium under an Insurance Contract
(other than under a life insurance contract) due to policy cancellation or termination,
decrease in risk exposure during the effective period of the Insurance Contract, or arising
from a redetermination of the premium due to correction of posting or other similar error: or
(3) a policyholder dividend based upon the underwriting experience of the contract or group
involved.
(aa) The term "Reportable Account" means a U.S. Reportable Account or an Indian
Reportable Account, as the context requires.
(bb) The term "Indian Reportable Account" means a Financial Account I maintained by a
Reporting U.S. Financial Institution if: (i) in the case of a Depository Account, the
account is held by an individual resident in India and more than S10 of interest is paid to
such account in any given calendar year: or (ii) in the case of a Financial Account other
than a Depository Account, the Account Holder is a resident of India, including an
Entity that certifies that it is resident in India for tax purposes, with respect to which
U.S. source income that is subject to reporting under chapter 3 of subtitle A or chapter
61 of subtitle F of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code is paid or credited.
(cc) The term "U.S. Reportable Account" means a Financial Account maintained by a
Reporting Indian Financial institution and held by one or more Specified U..S. Persons
or by a Non-U.S. Entity with one or more Controlling Persons that is a Specified U.S.
Person. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an account shall not be treated as a U.S.
Reportable Account if such account is not identified as a U.S. Reportable Account after
application of the due diligence procedures in Annex I.
(dd) The term "Account Holder" means the person listed or identified as the holder of a
Financial Account by the Financial Institution that maintains the account. A person,
other than a Financial Institution, holding a Financial Account for the benefit or account
of another person as agent, custodian, nominee, signatory, investment advisor, or
intermediary, is not treated as holding the account for purposes of this Agreement, and
such other person is treated as holding the account. For purposes of the immediately
preceding sentence, the term "Financial Institution" does not include a Financial
Institution organized or incorporated in a U.S. Territory. In the case of a Cash Value
Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract, the Account Holder is any person entitled to
access the Cash Value or change the beneficiary of the contract. If no person can access
the Cash Value or change the beneficiary, the Account Holder is any person named as
the owner in the contract and any person with a vested entitlement to payment under the
terms of the contract. Upon the maturity of a Cash Value Insurance Contract or an
Annuity Contract. each person entitled to receive a payment under the contract is treated
as an Account Holder.
(ee) The term "U.S. Person" means a U.S. citizen or resident individual, a partnership or
corporation organized in the United States or under the laws of the United States or any
State thereof, a trust if (i) a court within the United States would have authority under
applicable law to render orders or judgments concerning substantially all issues
5/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
regarding administration of the trust, and (ii) one or more U.S. persons have the
authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust, or an estate of a decedent that is
a citizen or resident of the United States. This subparagraph l(ee) shall be interpreted in
accordance with the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.
(ff) The term "Specified U.S. Person" means a U.S. Person, other than: (i) a corporation the
stock of which is regularly traded on one or more established securities markets; (ii) any
corporation that is a member of the same expanded affiliated group, as defined in section
1471(e)(2) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as a corporation described in clause (i);
(iii) the United States or any wholly owned agency or instrumentality thereof; (iv) any
State of the United States, any U.S. Territory, any political subdivision of any of the
foregoing, or any wholly owned agency or instrumentality of any one or more of the
foregoing; (v) any organization exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code or an individual retirement plan as defined in section 7701(a)(37)
of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code; (vi) any bank as defined in section 581 of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code; (vii) any real estate investment trust as defined in section 856 of
the U.S. Internal Revenue Code; (viii) any regulated investment company as defined in
section 85! of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code or any entity registered with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 of 15
U.S.C 80a-64); any common trust fund as defined in section 584(d) of the U.S. Internal
Revenue Code; (x) any trust that is exempt from tax under section 664(c) of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code or that is described in section 4947(a)(1) of the U.S. Internal
Revenue Code; (xi) a dealer in securities, commodities, or derivative financial
instruments (including notional principal contracts, futures, forwards, and options) that
is registered as such under the laws of the United States or any State; (xii) a broker as
defined in section 6045(c) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code; or (xiii) any tax-exempt
trust under a plan that is described in section 403(b) or section 457(g) of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code.
(gg) The term "Entity" means a legal person or a legal arrangement such as a trust.
(hh) The term "Non-L.S. Entity" means an Entity that is not a U.S. Person.
(ii) The term "U.S. Source Withholdable Payment" means any payment of interest
(including any original issue discount), dividends, rents, salaries. wages, premiums,
annuities, compensations, remunerations, emoluments, and other fixed or determinable
annual or periodical gains, profits, and income, if such payment is from sources within
the United States. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a U.S. Source Withholdable Payment
does not include any payment that is not treated as a withholdable payment in relevant
U.S. Treasury-Regulations.
(jj) An Entity is a "Related Entity" of another Entity if either Entity controls the other Entity,
or the two Entities are under common control. For this purpose control includes direct or
indirect ownership of more than 50 percent of the vote or value in an Entity.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, India may treat an Entity as not a Related Entity of
another Entity if the two Entities are not members of the same expanded affiliated group
as defined in section 1471(e)(2) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.
(kk) The term "U.S. TIN" means a U.S. federal taxpayer identifying number.
(ll) The term "Indian TIN" means an Indian taxpayer identifying number.
(mm) The term "Controlling Persons" means the natural persons who exercise control over an
Entity. In the case of a trust, such term means the settlor, the trustees, the protector (if
any), the beneficiaries or class of beneficiaries, and any other natural person exercising
ultimate effective control over the trust. and in the case of a legal arrangement other than
a 
trust, such term means persons in equivalent or similar positions. The term
"Controlling Persons" shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the Financial
Action Task Force Recommendations.
6/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
2. Any term not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall, unless the context otherwise requires or the
Competent Authorities agree to a common meaning (as permitted by domestic law), have the meaning that it
has at that time under the law of the Party applying this Agreement, an) meaning under the applicable tax
laws of that Party prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other Saws of that Party.
ARTICLE 2
OBLIGATIONS TO OBTAIN AND EXCHANGE INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO
REPORTABLE ACCOUNTS
1. Subject to the provisions of Article 3 of this Agreement, each Party shall obtain the information specified
in paragraph 2 of this Article with respect to all Reportable Accounts and shall annually exchange this
information with the other Party on an automatic basis pursuant to the provisions of Article 28 of the
Convention.
2. The information to be obtained and exchanged is:
(a) In the case of India with respect to each U.S. Reportable Account of each Reporting Indian
Financial Institution:
(1) the name, address, and U.S. TIN of each Specified U.S. Person that is an Account Holder of
such account and, in the case of a Non-U.S. Entity that, after application of the due
diligence procedures set forth in Annex I, is identified as having one or more Controlling
Persons that is a Specified U.S. Person, the name, address, and U.S. TIN (if any) of such
entity and each such Specified U.S. Person;
(2) the account number (or functional equivalent in the absence of an account number);
(3) the name and identifying number of the Reporting Indian Financial Institution;
(4) the account balance or value (including, in the case of a Cash Value Insurance Contract or
Annuity Contract, the Cash Value or surrender value) as of the end of the relevant calendar
year or other appropriate reporting period or. if the account was closed during such year.
immediately before closure:
(5) in the case of any Custodial Account:
(A) the total gross amount of interest, the total gross amount of dividends, and the total gross
amount o( other income generated with respect to the assets held in the account, in each
case paid or credited to the account (or with respect to the account) during the calendar
year or other appropriate reporting period; and
(B) the total gross proceeds from the sale or redemption of property paid or credited to the
account during the calendar year or other ; appropriate reporting period with respect to
which the Reporting Indian Financial Institution acted as a custodian broker, nominee, or
otherwise as an agent for the Account Holder:
(6) in the ease of any Depository Account, the total gross amount of interest paid or credited to
the account during the calendar year or other appropriate reporting period; and
(7) in the case of any account not described in subparagraph 2(a)(5) or 2(a)(6) of this Article,
the total gross amount paid or credited to the Account Holder with respect to the account
during the calendar year or other appropriate reporting period with respect to which the
Reporting Indian Financial Institution is the obligor or debtor, including the aggregate
amount of any redemption payments made to the Account Holder during the calendar year
or other appropriate reporting period.
(b) In the case of the United States, with respect to each Indian Reportable Account of each
Reporting U.S. Financial Institution:
(1) the name, address, and Indian TIN of any person that is a resident of India and is an
Account Holder of the account;
7/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
(2) the account number (or the functional equivalent in the absence of an account number):
(3) the name and identifying number of the Reporting U.S. Financial Institution;
(4) the gross amount of interest paid on a Depository Account;
(5) the gross amount of U.S. source dividends paid or credited to the account; and
(6) the gross amount of other U.S. source income paid or credited to the account, to the extent
subject to reporting under chapter 3 of subtitle A or chapter 6 of subtitle F of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code.
ARTICLE 3
TIME AND MANNER OF EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION
For purposes of the exchange obligation in Article 2 of this Agreement, the amount and characterization of
payments made with respect to a U.S. Reportable Account may be determined in accordance with the
principles of the tax laws of India, and the amount and characterization, of payments made with respect to
an Indian Reportable Account may be determined in accordance with principles of U.S. federal income tax
law.
2. For purposes of the exchange obligation in Article 2 of this Agreement, the information exchanged shall
identify the currency in which each relevant amount is denominated.
3. With respect to paragraph 2 of Article 2 of this Agreement, information is to he obtained and exchanged
with respect to 201 4 and all subsequent years, except that:
(a) In the case of India
(1) the information to be obtained and exchanged with respect to 2014 is only the information
described in subparagraphs 2(a)(1) through 2(a)(4) of Article 2 of this Agreement;
(2) the information to be obtained and exchanged with respect to 2015 is the information
described in subparagraphs 2(a)(1) through 2(a)(7) of Article 2 of this Agreement, except
for gross proceeds described in subparagraph 2(a)(5)(B) of Article 2 of this Agreement; and
(3) the information to be obtained and exchanged with respect to 2016 and subsequent years is
the information described in subparagraphs 2(a)(1) through 2(a)(7) of Article 2 of this
Agreement;
(b) In the case of the United States, the information to be obtained and exchanged with respect to
2014 and subsequent years is all of the information identified in subparagraph 2(b) of Article 2 of
this Agreement.
4. Notwithstanding paragraph 3 of this Article, with respect to each Reportable Account that is maintained
by a Reporting Financial Institution as of June 30, 2014, and subject to paragraph 4 of Article 6 of this
Agreement, the Parties are not required to obtain and include in the exchanged information the Indian TIN
or the U.S. TIN, as applicable, of any relevant person if such taxpayer identifying number is not in the
records of the Reporting Financial Institution. In such a case, the Parties shall obtain and include in the
exchanged information the date of birth of the relevant person, if the Reporting Financial Institution has
such date of birth in its records.
5. Subject to paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article, the information described in Article 2 of this Agreement
shall be exchanged within nine months after the end of the calendar year to which the information relates.
6. The Competent Authorities of India and the United States shall enter into an agreement or arrangement
under the mutual agreement procedure provided for in Article 27 of the Convention, which shall:
(a) establish the procedures for the automatic exchange obligations described in Article 2 of this
Agreement;
(b) prescribe rules and procedures as may be necessary to implement Article 5 of this Agreement;
and
(c) establish as necessary procedures for the exchange of the information reported under
subparagraph 1(b) of Article 4 of this Agreement.
8/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
7. All information exchanged shall be subject to the confidentiality and other protections : provided for in
the Convention, including the provisions limiting the use of the information ! exchanged.
8. Following entry into force of this Agreement, each Competent Authority shall provide written notification
to the other Competent Authority when it is satisfied that the jurisdiction of the other Competent Authority
has in place (i) appropriate safeguards to ensure that the information received pursuant to this Agreement
shall remain confidential and be used solely for tax purposes, and (ii) the infrastructure for an effective
exchange relationship (including established processes for ensuring timely, accurate, and confidential
information exchanges, effective and reliable communications, and demonstrated capabilities to promptly
resolve questions and concerns about exchanges or requests for exchanges and to administer the provisions
of Article 5 of this Agreement). The Competent Authorities shall endeavor in good faith to meet, prior to
September 2015, to establish that each jurisdiction has such safeguards and infrastructure in place.
9. The obligations of the Parties to obtain and exchange information under Article 2 of this Agreement shall
take effect on the date of the later of the written notifications described in paragraph 8 of this Article.
10. This Agreement shall terminate on September 30, 2015, if Article 2 of this Agreement is not in effect
pursuant to paragraph 9 of this Article by that date.
ARTICLE 4
APPLICATION OF 
FATCA TO INDIAN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
1. Treatment of Reporting Indian Financial Institutions. Each Reporting Indian Financial Institution shall
be treated as complying with, and not subject to withholding under. section 1471 of the U.S. Internal
Revenue Code if India complies with its obligations under Articles 2 and 3 of this Agreement with respect
to such Reporting Indian Financial Institution, and the Reporting Indian Financial Institution:
(a) identifies U.S. Reportable Accounts and reports annually to the Indian Competent Authority the
information required to be reported in subparagraph 2(a) of Article 2 of this Agreement in the
time and manner described in Article 3 of this Agreement;
(b) for each of 2015 and 2016. reports annually to the Indian Competent Authority the name of each
Nonparticipating Financial Institution to which it has made payments and the aggregate amount
of such payments:
(c) complies with the applicable registration requirements on the IRS 
FATCA registration website;
(d) to the extent that a Reporting Indian Financial Institution is (i) acting as a qualified intermediary
(for purposes of section 1441 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code) that has elected to assume
primary withholding responsibility under chapter 3 of subtitle A of the U.S. Internal Revenue
Code. (ii) a foreign partnership that has elected to act as a withholding foreign partnership for
purposes of both sections 1441 and 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.. or (iii) a foreign
trust that has elected to act as a withholding foreign trust (for purposes of both sections 1441 and
1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code). withhold 30 percent of any U.S Source Withholdable
Payment to any Nonparticipating financial Institution; and
(e) in the case of a Reporting Indian Financial Institution that is not described in subparagraph 1(d)
of this Article and that makes a payment of, or acts as an intermediary with respect to, a U.S.
Source Withholdable Payment to any Nonparticipating Financial Institution, the Reporting Indian
Financial Institution provides to any immediate payor of such U.S. Source Withholdable Payment
the information required for withholding and reporting to occur with respect to such payment.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Reporting Indian Financial Institution with respect to which the conditions
of this paragraph are not satisfied shall not be subject to withholding under section 1471 of the U.S. Internal
Revenue Code unless such Reporting Indian Financial Institution is treated by the IRS as a Nonparticipating
Financial Institution pursuant to subparagraph 2(b) of Article 5 of this Agreement.
2. Suspension of Rules Relating to Recalcitrant Accounts. The United States shall not require a Reporting
Indian Financial Institution to withhold tax under section 1471 or 1472 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code
with respect to an account held by a recalcitrant account holder (as defined in section 1471(d)(6) of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code), or to close such account, if the U.S. Competent Authority receives the information
9/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
set forth in subparagraph 2(a) of Article 2 of this Agreement, subject to the provisions of Article 3 of this
Agreement, with respect to such account.
3. Specific Treatment of Indian Retirement Plans. The United States shall treat as deemed-compliant FFIs
or exempt beneficial owners, as appropriate, for purposes of sections 1471 and 1472 of the U.S. Internal
Revenue Code, Indian retirement plans described in Annex II. For this purpose, an Indian retirement plan
includes an Entity established or located in, and regulated by, India, or a predetermined contractual or legal
arrangement. operated to provide pension or retirement benefits or earn income for providing such benefits
under the laws of India and regulated with respect to contributions, distributions, reporting. sponsorship, and
taxation.
4. Identification and Treatment of Other Deemed-Compliant FFIs and Exempt Beneficial Owners. The
United States shall treat each Non-Reporting Indian Financial Institution as a deemed-compliant FFI or as
an exempt beneficial owner, as appropriate, for purposes of section 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.
5. Special Rules Regarding Related Entities and Branches That Are Nonparticipating Financial
Institutions. If an Indian Financial Institution, that otherwise meets the requirements described in paragraph
1 of this Article or is described in paragraph 3 or 4 of this Article, has a Related Entity or branch that
operates in a jurisdiction that prevents such Related Entity or branch from fulfilling the requirements of a
participating FFI or deemed-compliant FFI for purposes of section 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code
or has a Related Entity or branch that is treated as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution solely due to the
expiration of the transitional rule for limited FFIs and limited branches under relevant U.S. Treasury
Regulations, such Indian Financial Institution shall continue to be in compliance with the terms of this
Agreement and shall continue to be treated as a deemed-compliant FFI or exempt beneficial owner, as
appropriate, tor purposes of section 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, provided that.
(a) the Indian Financial Institution treats each such Related Entity or branch as a separate
Nonparticipating Financial Institution for purposes of all the reporting and withholding
requirements of this Agreement and each such Related Entity or branch identifies itself to
withholding agents as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution;
(b) each such Related Entity or branch identifies its U.S. accounts and reports the information with
respect to those accounts as required under section 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code to the
extent permitted under the relevant laws pertaining to the Related Entity or branch; and
(c) such Related Entity or branch does not specifically solicit U.S. accounts held by persons that are
not resident in the jurisdiction where such Related Entity or branch is located or accounts held by
Nonparticipating Financial Institutions that are not established in the jurisdiction where such
Related Entity or branch is located, and such Related Entity or branch is not used by the Indian
Financial Institution or any other Related Entity to circumvent the obligations under this
Agreement or under section 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as appropriate.
6. Coordination of Timing. Notwithstanding paragraphs 3 and 5 of Article 3 of this Agreement:
(a) India shall not be obligated to obtain and exchange information with respect to a calendar year
that is prior to the calendar year with respect to which similar information is required to be
reported to the IRS by participating FFls pursuant to relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations;
(b) India shall not be obligated to begin exchanging information prior to the date by which
participating FFIs are required to report similar information to the IRS under relevant U.S.
Treasury Regulations;
(c) the United States shall not be obligated to obtain and exchange information with respect to a
calendar year that is prior to the first calendar year with respect to which India is required to
obtain and exchange information; and
(d) the United States shall not be obligated to begin exchanging information prior to the date by
which India is required to begin exchanging information.
7. Coordination of Definitions with U.S. Treasury Regulations. Notwithstanding rticle 1 of this Agreement
and the definitions provided in the Annexes to this Agreement., in iplementing this Agreement. India may
use. and ma> permit Indian Financial Institutions to >e. a definition in relevant U.S. Treasurv Regulations in
10/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
lieu of a corresponding definition in is Agreement, provided that such application would not frustrate the
purposes of this greement.
ARTICLE 5
COLLABORATION ON COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
1. Minor and Administrative Errors. A Competent Authority shall notify the Competent Authority of the
other Party when the first-mentioned Competent Authority has reason to believe that administrative errors or
other minor errors may have led to incorrect or incomplete information reporting or resulted in other
infringements of this Agreement. The Competent Authority of such other Party shall apply its domestic law
(including applicable penalties) to obtain corrected and/or complete information or to resolve other
infringements of this Agreement.
2. Significant Non-Compliance.
(a) A Competent Authority shall notify the Competent Authority of the other Party when the first
mentioned Competent Authority has determined that there is significant non-compliance with the
obligations under this Agreement with respect to a Reporting Financial Institution in the other
jurisdiction. The Competent Authority of such other Party shall apply its domestic law (including
applicable penalties) to address the significant non-compliance described in the notice.
(b) If, in the case of a Reporting Indian Financial Institution, such enforcement actions do not resolve
the non-compliance within a period of 18 months after notification of significant non-compliance
is first provided, the United States shall treat the Reporting Indian Financial Institution as a
Nonparticipating Financial Institution pursuant to this subparagraph 2(b).
3. Reliance on Third Party Service Providers. Each Party may allow Reporting Financial Institutions to use
third party service providers to fulfill the obligations imposed on such Reporting Financial Institutions by a
Party, as contemplated in this Agreement, but these obligations shall remain the responsibility of the
Reporting Financial Institutions.
4. Prevention of Avoidance. The Parties shall implement as necessary requirements to prevent Financial
Institutions from adopting practices intended to circumvent the reporting j required under this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6
MUTUAL COMMITMENT TO CONTINUE TO ENHANCE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF
INFORMATION EXCHANGE AND TRANSPARENCY
1. Reciprocity. The Government of the United States acknowledges the need to achieve equivalent levels of
reciprocal automatic information exchange with India. The Government of the United States is committed to
further improve transparency and enhance the exchange relationship with India by pursuing the adoption of
regulations and advocating and supporting relevant legislation to achieve such equivalent levels of
reciprocal automatic information j exchange.
2. Treatment of Passthru Payments and Gross Proceeds. The Parties are committed to work together, along
with Partner Jurisdictions, to develop a practical and effective alternative approach to achieve the polio
objectives of foreign passthna payment and gross proceeds withholding that minimizes burden
3. Development of Common Reporting and Exchange Model. The Parties are committed to working with
Partner Jurisdictions and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development on adapting the
terms of this Agreement and other agreements between the United States and Partner Jurisdictions to a
common model for automatic exchange of information, including the development of reporting and due
diligence standards for financial institutions.
4. Documentation of Accounts Maintained as of June 30, 2014. With respect to Reportable Accounts
maintained by a Reporting Financial Institution as of June 30. 2014:
(a) The United States commits to establish, by January 1, 2017, for reporting with respect to 2017
and subsequent years, rules requiring Reporting U.S. Financial Institutions to obtain and report
the Indian TIN of each Account Holder of an Indian Reportable Account as required pursuant to
subparagraph 2(b)( 1) of Article 2 of this Agreement; and
(b) India commits to establish, by January 1, 2017, for reporting with respect to 2017 and subsequent
11/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
years, rules requiring Reporting Indian Financial Institutions to obtain the U.S. TIN of each
Specified U.S. Person as required pursuant to subparagraph 2(a)( 1) of Article 2 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE 7
CONSISTENCY IN THE APPLICATION OF 
FATCA TO PARTNER JURISDICTIONS
1. India shall be granted the benefit of any more favorable terms under Article 4 or Annex I of this
Agreement relating to the application of 
FATCA to Indian Financial Institutions afforded to another Partner
Jurisdiction under a signed bilateral agreement pursuant to which the other Partner Jurisdiction commits to
undertake the same obligations as India described in .Articles 2 and 3 of this Agreement, and subject to the
same terms and conditions as described therein and in Articles 5 through 9 of this Agreement.
The United States shall notify India of any such more favorable terms, and such more favorable terms shall
apply automatically under this Agreement as if such terms were specified in this Agreement and effective as
of the date of signing of the agreement incorporating the more favorable terms, unless India declines in
writing the application thereof.
ARTICLE 8
CONSULTATIONS AND AMENDMENTS
1. In case any difficulties in the implementation of this Agreement arise, either Part> mav request
consultations to develop appropriate measures to ensure the fulfillment of this Agreement.
2. This Agreement may be amended by written mutual agreement of the Parties. L nless otherwise agreed
upon, such an amendment shall enter into force through the same procedures, as set forth in paragraph 1 of
Article 10 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 9
ANNEXES
The Annexes form an integral part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 10
TERM OF AGREEMENT
1. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of India's written notification to the United States that
India has completed its necessary internal procedures for entry into force of this Agreement.
2. Either Party may terminate this Agreement by giving notice of termination in writing to the other Party.
Such termination shall become effective on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of
12 months after the date of the notice of termination.
3. The Parties shall, prior to December 31. 2016. consult in good faith to amend this Agreement as
necessary to reflect progress on the commitments set forth in Article 6 of this Agreement.
In witness whereof, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have
signed this Agreement.
Done at the Government of the Republic of India Ministry of Finance. North Block, New Delhi. India, in
duplicate, this 9th day of July, 2015. in the Hindi and English languages, both texts being equally authentic.
In case of divergence between the two texts, the English text shall be the operative one.
ANNEX I
DUE DILIGENCE OBLIGATIONS FOR IDENTIFYING AND REPORTING ON U.S.
REPORTABLE ACCOUNTS AND ON PAYMENTS TO CERTAIN NONPARTICIPATING
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
I. General.
A. India shall require that Reporting Indian Financial Institutions apply the due diligence procedures
contained in this Annex I to identity U.S. Reportable Accounts and accounts held by Nonparticipating
Financial Institutions.
B. For purposes of the Agreement,
12/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
1. All dollar amounts are in U.S. dollars and shall be read to include the equivalent in other
currencies.
2. Except as otherwise provided herein, the balance or value of an account shall be determined as of
the last day of the calendar year or other appropriate reporting period.
3. Where a balance or value threshold is to be determined as of June 30, 2014 under this Annex I,
the relevant balance or value shall be determined as of that day or the last day of the reporting
period ending immediately before June 30, 2014. and where a balance or value threshold is to be
determined as of the last day of a calendar year under this Annex I, the relevant balance or value
shall be determined as of the last day of the calendar year or other appropriate reporting period.
4. Subject to subparagraph E(1) of section II of this Annex I, an account shall be treated as a U.S.
Reportable Account beginning as of the date it is identified as such pursuant to the due diligence
procedures in this Annex I.
5. Unless otherwise provided, information with respect to a U.S. Reportable Account shall be
reported annually in the calendar year following the year to which the information relates.
II. Preexisting Individual Accounts. The following rules and procedures apply for purposes of identifying
U.S. Reportable Accounts among Preexisting Accounts held by individuals ("Preexisting Individual
Accounts").
A. Accounts Not Required to Be Reviewed, Identified, or Reported. Unless the Reporting Indian
Financial Institution elects otherwise, either with respect to all Preexisting Individual Accounts or,
separately, with respect to any clearly identified group of such accounts, where the implementing rules in
India provide for such an election, the following Preexisting Individual Accounts are not required to be
reviewed, identified, or reported as U.S. Reportable Accounts;
1. Subject to subparagraph E(2) of this section, a Preexisting individual Account with a balance or
value that does not exceed $50,000 as of June 30, 2014.
2. Subject to subparagraph E(2) of this section, a Preexisting Individual Account that is a Cash
Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract with a balance or value of $250,000 or less as
of June 30, 2014.
3. A Preexisting Individual Account that is a Cash Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract,
provided the law or regulations of India or the United States effectively prevent the sale of such a
Cash Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract to U.S. residents (e.g., if die relevant
Financial Institution does not have the required registration under U.S. law, and the law of India
requires reporting or withholding with respect to insurance products held by residents of India).
4. A Depository Account with a balance of $50,000 or less.
B. Review Procedures for Preexisting Individual Accounts With a Balance or Value as of June 30,
2014. that Exceeds $50.000 ($250.000 for a Cash Value Insurance Contract or Annuity Contract). But
Does Not Exceed $1.000.000 ("Lower Value Accounts").
1. Electronic Record Search. The Reporting Indian Financial Institution must review electronically
searchable data maintained by the Reporting Indian Financial Institution for any of the following U.S.
indicia:
(a) Identification of the Account Holder as a U.S. citizen or resident;
(b) Unambiguous indication of a U.S. place of birth;
(c) Current U.S. mailing or residence address (including a U.S. post office box);
(d) Current U.S. telephone number;
(e) Standing instructions to transfer funds to an account maintained in the United States;
(f) Currently effective power of attorney or signatory authority granted to a person with a U.S.
address; or
(g) An "in-care-of or "hold mail" address that is the sole address the Reporting Indian Financial
Institution has on file for the Account Holder. In the case of a Preexisting Individual Account that
13/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
is a Lower Value Account, an '"in-care-of" address outside the United States or "hold mai'"
address shall not be treated as U.S. indicia.
2. If none of the U.S. indicia listed in subparagraph B(1) of this section are discovered in the electronic
search, then no further action is required until there is a change in circumstances that results in one or more
U.S. indicia being associated with the account, or the account becomes a High Value Account described in
paragraph D of this section.
3. If any of the U.S. indicia listed in subparagraph B(1) of this section are discovered in the electronic
search, or if there is a change in circumstances that results in one or more U.S. indicia being associated with
the account, then the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must treat the account as a U.S. Reportable
Account unless it elects to apply subparagraph B(4) of this section and one of the exceptions in such
subparagraph applies with respect to that account.
4. Notwithstanding a finding of U.S. indicia under subparagraph B(1) of this section, a Reporting Indian
Financial Institution is not required to treat an account as a U.S. Reportable Account if:
(a) Where the Account Holder information unambiguously indicates a U.S. place of birth, the
Reporting Indian Financial Institution obtains, or has previously reviewed and maintains a record
of:
(1) A self-certification that the Account Holder is neither a U.S. citizen nor a U.S. resident for
tax purposes (which may be on an IRS Form W-8 or other similar agreed form);
(2) A non-U.S. passport or other government-issued identification evidencing the Account
Holder's citizenship or nationality in a country other than the United States; and
(3) A copy of the Account Holder's Certificate of Loss of Nationality of the United States or a
reasonable explanation of:
(a) The reason the Account Holder does not have such a certificate despite relinquishing
U.S. citizenship; or
(b) The reason the Account Holder did not obtain U.S. citizenship at birth.
(b) Where the Account Holder information contains a current U.S. mailing or residence address, or
one or more U.S. telephone numbers that are the only telephone numbers associated with the
account, the ; Reporting Indian Financial Institution obtains, or has previously reviewed and
maintains a record of:
(1) A self-certification that the Account Holder is neither a U.S. citizen nor a U.S. resident for
tax purposes which may be i on an [RS Form W-8 or other similar agreed form); and
(2) Documentary evidence, as defined in paragraph D of section VI of this Annex I,
establishing the Account Holder's non-U.S. status.
(c) Where the Account Holder information contains standing instructions to transfer funds to an
account maintained in the United States, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution obtains, or has
previously reviewed and maintains a record of:
(1) A self-certification that the Account Holder is neitiier a U.S. citizen nor a U.S. resident for
tax purposes (which may be on an IRS Form W-8 or other similar agreed form); and
(2) Documentary evidence, as defined in paragraph D of section VI of this Annex I,
establishing the Account Holder's non-U.S. status.
(d) Where the Account Holder information contains a currently effective power of attorney or
signatory authority granted to a person with a U.S. address, has an "in-care-of" address or "hold
mail" address that is the sole address identified for the Account Holder, or has one or more U.S.
telephone numbers (if a non-U.S. telephone number is also associated with the account), the
Reporting Indian Financial Institution obtains, or has previously reviewed and maintains a record
of:
14/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
(1) A self-certification that the Account Holder is neither a U.S. citizen nor a U.S. resident for
tax purposes (which may be on an IRS Form W-8 or other similar agreed form); or
(2) Documentary evidence, as defined in paragraph D of section VI of this Annex I,
establishing the Account Holder's non-U.S. status.
C. Additional Procedures Applicable to Preexisting Individual Accounts That Are Lower Value
Accounts.
1. Review of Preexisting Individual Accounts that are Lower Value Accounts for U.S. indicia must
be completed by June 30, 2016.
2. If there is a change of circumstances with respect to a Preexisting Individual Account that is a
Lower Value Account that results in one or more U.S. indicia described in subparagraph B(1) of
this section being associated with the account, then the Reporting Indian Financial Institution
must treat the account as a U.S. Reportable Account unless subparagraph B(4) of this section
applies.
3. Except for Depository Accounts described in subparagraph A(4) of this section, any Preexisting
Individual Account that has been identified as a U.S. Reportable Account under this section shall
be treated as a U.S. Reportable Account in all subsequent years, unless the Account Holder
ceases to be a Specified U.S. Person.
D. Enhanced Review Procedures for Preexisting Individual Accounts With a Balance or Value That Exceeds
$1.000.000 as of June 30, 2014, or December 31 of 2015 or Any Subsequent Year ("High Value Accounts").
1. Electronic Record Search. The Reporting Indian Financial Institution must review electronically
searchable data maintained by the Reporting Indian Financial Institution for any of the U.S.
indicia described in subparagraph B(1) of this section.
2. Paper Record Search. If the Reporting Indian Financial Institution's electronically searchable
databases include fields for, and capture all of the information described in, subparagraph D(3) of
this section, then no further paper record search is required. If the electronic databases do not
capture all of this information, then with respect to a High Value Account, the Reporting Indian
Financial Institution must also review the current customer master file and, to the extent not
contained in the current customer master file, the following documents associated with the
account and obtained by the Reporting Indian Financial Institution within the last five years for
any of the U.S. indicia described in subparagraph B(1) of this section:
(a) The most recent documentary evidence collected with respect to the account;
(b) The most recent account opening contract or documentation;
(c) The most recent documentation obtained by the Reporting Indian Financial Institution
pursuant to AML/KYC Procedures or for other regulatory purposes;
(d) Any power of attorney or signature authority forms currently in effect; and
(e) Any standing instructions to transfer funds currently in effect.
3. Exception Where Databases Contain Sufficient Information. A Reporting Indian Financial
Institution is not required to perform the paper record search described in subparagraph D(2) of
this section if the Reporting Indian Financial Institution's electronically searchable information
includes the following:
(a) The Account Holder's nationality or residence status;
(b) The Account Holder's residence address and mailing address : currently on file with the
Reporting Indian Financial Institution;
(c) The Account Holder's telephone number(s) currently on tile, it any, with the Reporting
Indian Financial Institution;
(d) Whether there are standing instructions to transfer funds in the account to another account
(including an account at another branch of the Reporting Indian Financial Institution or
another Financial Institution);
15/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
(e) Whether there is a current "in-care-of' address or "hold mail" address for the Account
Holder; and
(f) Whether there is any power of attorney or signatory authority for the account.
4. Relationship Manager Inquiry for Actual Knowledge. In addition to the electronic and paper
record searches described above, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must treat as a U.S.
Reportable Account any High Value Account assigned to a relationship manager (including any
Financial Accounts aggregated with such High Value Account) if the relationship manager has
actual knowledge that the Account Holder is a Specified U.S. Person.
5. . Effect of Finding U.S. Indicia.
(a) If none of the U.S. indicia listed in subparagraph B(1) of this section are discovered in the
enhanced review of High Value Accounts described above, and the account is not identified
as held by a Specified U.S. Person in subparagraph D(4) of this section, then no further
action is required until there is a change in circumstances that results in one or more U.S.
indicia being associated with the account.
(b) If any of the U.S. indicia listed in subparagraph B(1) of this section are discovered in the
enhanced review of High Value Accounts described above, or if there is a subsequent
change in circumstances that results in one or more U.S. indicia being associated with the
account, then the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must treat the account as a U.S.
Reportable Account unless it elects to apply subparagraph B(4) of this section and one of
the exceptions in such subparagraph applies with respect to that account.
(c) Except for Depository Accounts described in subparagraph A(4) of this section, anv
Preexisting Individual Account that has been ! identified as a U.S. Reportable Account
under this section shall be j treated as a U.S. Reportable Account in all subsequent years,
unless the j Account Holder ceases to be a Specified U.S. Person.
E. Additional Procedures Applicable to High Value Accounts.
1. If a Preexisting Individual Account is a High Value Account as of June 30, 2014, the Reporting
Indian Financial Institution must complete the enhanced review procedures described in
paragraph D of this section with respect to such account by June 30, 2015. If based on this review
such account is identified as a U.S. Reportable Account on or before December 31, 2014, the
Reporting Indian Financial Institution must report the required information about such account
with respect to 2014 in the first report on the account and on an annual basis thereafter. In the
case of an account identified as a U.S. Reportable Account after December 31, 2014 and on or
before June 30, 2015, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution is not required to report
information about such account with respect to 2014, but must report information about the
account on an annual basis thereafter.
2. If a Preexisting Individual Account is not a High Value Account as of June 30, 2014, but becomes
a High Value Account as of the last day of 2015 or any subsequent calendar year, the Reporting
Indian Financial Institution must complete the enhanced review procedures described in
paragraph D of this section with respect to such account within six months after the last day of
the calendar year in which the account becomes a High Value Account. If based on this review
such account is identified as a U.S. Reportable Account, the Reporting Indian Financial
Institution must report the required information about such account with respect to the year in
which it is identified as a U.S. Reportable Account and subsequent years on an annual basis,
unless the Account Holder ceases to be a Specified U.S. Person.
3. Once a Reporting Indian Financial Institution applies the enhanced review procedures described
in paragraph D of this section to a High Value Account, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution
is not required to re-apply such procedures, other than the relationship manager inquiry described
in subparagraph D(4) of this section, to the same High Value Account in any-subsequent year.
4. If there is a change of circumstances with respect to a High Value Account that results in one or
more U.S. indicia described in subparagraph B(1) of this section being associated with the
16/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
account, then the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must treat the account as a U.S.
Reportable j Account unless it elects to apply subparagraph B(4) of this section and one of ! the
exceptions in such subparagraph applies with respect to that account.
5. A Reporting Indian Financial Institution must implement procedures to ensure that a relationship
manager identifies any change in circumstances of j an account. For example, if a relationship
manager is notified that the Account Holder has a new mailing address in the United States, the
Reporting Indian Financial Institution is required to treat the new address as a change in
circumstances and, if it elects to apply subparagraph B(4) of this section, is required to obtain the
appropriate documentation from the Account Holder.
F. Preexisting Individual Accounts That Have Been Documented for Certain Other Purposes. A
Reporting Indian Financial Institution that has previously obtained documentation from an Account Holder
to establish the Account Holder's status as neither a U.S. citizen nor a U.S. resident in order to meet its
obligations under a qualified intermediary, withholding foreign partnership, or withholding foreign trust
agreement with the IRS, or to fulfill its obligations under chapter 61 of Title 26 of the United States Code, is
not required to perform the procedures described in subparagraph B(1) of this section with respect to Lower
Value Accounts or subparagraphs D(1) through D(3) of this section with respect to High Value Accounts.
III. New Individual Accounts. The following rules and procedures apply for purposes of identifying U.S.
Reportable Accounts among Financial Accounts held by individuals and opened on or after July 1, 2014
("New Individual Accounts").
A. Accounts Not Required to Be Reviewed. Identified, or Reported. Unless the Reporting Indian Financial
Institution elects otherwise, either with respect to all New Individual Accounts or, separately, with respect to
any clearly identified group of such accounts, where the implementing rules in India provide for such an
election, the following New Individual Accounts are not required to be reviewed, identified, or reported as
U.S. Reportable Accounts:
1. A Depository Account unless the account balance exceeds $50,000 at the end of any calendar
year or other appropriate reporting period.
2. A Cash Value Insurance Contract unless the Cash Value exceeds $50,000 at the end of any
calendar year or other appropriate reporting period.
B. Other New Individual Accounts. With respect to New Individual Accounts not described in paragraph A
of this section, upon account opening (or within 90 days after the end of the calendar year in which the
account ceases to be described in paragraph A of this section), the Reporting Indian Financial Institution
must obtain a self-certification, which may be part of the account opening documentation, that allows the
Reporting Indian Financial Institution to determine whether the Account Holder is resident in the United
States for tax purposes (for this purpose, a U.S. citizen is considered to be resident in the United States for
tax purposes, even if the Account Holder is also a tax resident of another jurisdiction) and confirm the
reasonableness of such self-certification based on the information obtained by the Reporting Indian
Financial Institution in connection with the opening of the account. including any documentation collected
pursuant to AML/KYC Procedures.
1. If the self-certification establishes that the Account Holder is resident in the United States for tax
purposes, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must treat the account as a U.S. Reportable
Account and obtain a self-certification that includes the Account Holder's U.S. TIN (which may
be an IRS Form W-9 or other similar agreed form).
2. If there is a change of circumstances with respect to a New Individual Account that causes the
Reporting Indian Financial Institution to know, or have reason to know, that the original self
certification is incorrect or unreliable, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution cannot rely on
the original self-certification and must obtain a valid self-certification that establishes whether the
Account Holder is a U.S. citizen or resident for U.S. j tax purposes. If the Reporting Indian
Financial Institution is unable to obtain a valid self-certification, the Reporting Indian Financial
Institution must treat the account as a U.S. Reportable Account.
17/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
IV. Preexisting Entity Accounts. The following rules and procedures apply for purposes of identifying U.S.
Reportable Accounts and accounts held by Nonparticipating Financial Institutions among Preexisting
Accounts held by Entities ("Preexisting Entity Accounts").
A. Entity Accounts Not Required to Be Reviewed, Identified or Reported.
Unless the Reporting Indian Financial Institution elects otherwise, either with respect to all Preexisting
Entity Accounts or, separately, with respect to any clearly identified group of such accounts, where the
implementing rules in India provide for such an election, a Preexisting Entity Account with an account
balance or value that does not exceed $250,000 as of June 30, 2014, is not required to be reviewed,
identified, or reported as a U.S. Reportable Account until the account balance or value exceeds $1,000,000.
B. Entity Accounts Subject to Review. A Preexisting Entity Account that has an account balance or value
that exceeds $250,000 as of June 30, 2014, and a Preexisting Entity Account that does not exceed $250,000
as of June 30, 2014 but the account balance or value of which exceeds $1,000,000 as of the last day of 2015
or any subsequent calendar year, must be reviewed in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph
D of this section.
C. Entity Accounts With Respect to Which Reporting Is Required. With respect to Preexisting Entity
Accounts described in paragraph B of this section, only- accounts that are held by one or more Entities that
are Specified U.S. Persons, or by Passive NFFEs with one or more Controlling Persons who are U.S.
citizens or residents, shall be treated as U.S. Reportable Accounts. In addition, accounts held by
Nonparticipating Financial Institutions shall be treated as accounts for which aggregate payments as
described in subparagraph 1(b) of Article 4 of the Agreement are reported to the Indian Competent
Authority.
D. Review Procedures for Identifying Entity Accounts With Respect to Which Reporting Is Required.
For Preexisting Entity Accounts described in paragraph B of this section, the Reporting Indian Financial
Institution must apply the following review procedures to determine whether the account is held by one or
more Specified U.S. Persons, by Passive NFFEs with one or more Controlling Persons who are U.S. citizens
or residents, or by Nonparticipating Financial Institutions:
1. Determine Whether the Entity Is a Specified U.S. Person.
(a) Review information maintained for regulatory or customer relationship purposes (including
information collected pursuant to j AML/KYC Procedures i to determine whether the information
, indicates that the Account Holder is a U.S. Person. For this purpose. information indicating that
the Account Holder is a U.S. Person includes a US. place of incorporation or organization, or a
US address.
(b) If the information indicates that the Account Holder is a U.S. Person, the Reporting Indian
Financial Institution must treat the account as a U.S. Reportable Account unless it obtains a self
certification from the Account Holder (which may be on an IRS Form W-8 or W-9, or a similar
agreed form), or reasonably determines based on information in its possession or that is publicly
available, that the Account Holder is not a Specified U.S. Person.
2. Determine Whether a Non-U.S. Entity Is a Financial Institution.
(a) Review information maintained for regulatory or customer relationship purposes (including
information collected pursuant to AML/KYC Procedures) to determine whether the information
indicates that the Account Holder is a Financial Institution.
(b) If the information indicates that the Account Holder is a Financial Institution, or the Reporting
Indian Financial Institution verities the Account Holder's Global Intermediary Identification
Number on the published IRS FFI list, then the account is not a U.S. Reportable Account.
3. Determine Whether a Financial Institution Is a Nonparticipating Financial Institution Payments to
Which Are Subject to Aggregate Reporting Under Subparagraph Kb) of Article 4 of the Agreement.
(a) Subject to subparagraph D(3)(b) of this section, a Reporting Indian Financial Institution may
determine that the Account Holder is an Indian Financial Institution or other Partner Jurisdiction
Financial Institution if the Reporting Indian Financial Institution reasonably determines that the
18/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
Account Holder has such status on the basis of the Account Holder's Global Intermediary
Identification Number on the published IRS FFI list or other information that is publicly available
or in the possession of the Reporting Indian Financial Institution, as applicable. In such case, no
further review, identification, or reporting is required with respect to the account.
(b) If the Account Holder is an Indian Financial Institution or other Partner Jurisdiction Financial
Institution treated by the IRS as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution, then the account is not a
U.S. Reportabie Account, but payments to the Account Holder must be reported as contemplated
in subparagraph 1(b) of Article 4 of the ! Agreement.
(c) If the Account Holder is not an Indian Financial Institution or ' other Partner Jurisdiction
Financial Institution, then the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must treat the Account
Holder as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution payments to which are reportable under
subparagraph 1(b) or" Article 4 of the Agreement. unless the Reporting Indian Financial
Institution:
(1) Obtains a self-certification (which may be on an IRS Form W-8 or similar agreed form)
from the Account Holder that it is a certified deemed-compliant FFI, or an exempt
beneficial owner, as those terms are defined in relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations; or
(2) In the case of a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI, verifies the Account
Holder's Global Intermediary Identification Number on the published IRS FFI list.
4. Determine Whether an Account Held by an NFFE Is a U.S. Reportable Account. With respect to an
Account Holder of a Preexisting Entity Account that is not identified as either a U.S. Person or a Financial
Institution, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must identify (i) whether the Account Holder has
Controlling Persons, (ii) whether the Account Holder is a Passive NFFE, and (iii) whether any of the
Controlling Persons of the Account Holder is a U.S. citizen or resident. In making these determinations the
Reporting Indian Financial Institution must follow the guidance in subparagraphs D(4)(a) through D(4)(d)
of this section in the order most appropriate under the circumstances.
(a) For purposes of determining the Controlling Persons of an Account Holder, a Reporting Indian
Financial Institution may rely on information collected and maintained pursuant to AML/KYC
Procedures.
(b) For purposes of determining whether the Account Holder is a Passive NFFE, the Reporting
Indian Financial Institution must obtain a self-certification (which may be on an IRS Form W-8
or W-9, or on a similar agreed form) from the Account Holder to establish its status. unless it has
information in its possession or that is publicly available, based on which it can reasonably
determine that the Account Holder is an Active NFFE.
(c) For purposes of determining whether a Controlling Person of a Passive NFFE is a U.S. citizen or
resident for tax purposes, a Reporting Indian Financial Institution may rely on:
(1) Information collected and maintained pursuant to AML/KYC Procedures in the case of a
Preexisting Entity Account held by one or more NFFEs with an account balance or value
that does not exceed $ 1,000,000, or
(2) A self-certification (which may be on an IRS Form W-8 or W-9, or on a similar agreed
form) from the Account Holder or such Controlling Person in the case of a Preexisting
Entity Account held b\ one or more NFFEs with an account balance or value that exceeds
$1,000,000.
(d) If any Controlling Person of a Passive NFFE is a U.S. citizen or resident, the account shall be
treated as a U.S. Reportable Account.
E. Timing of Review and Additional Procedures Applicable to Preexisting Entity Accounts.
1. Review of Preexisting Entity Accounts with an account balance or value that exceeds $250,000
as of June 30, 2014 must be completed by June 30,2016.
2. Review of Preexisting Entity Accounts with an account balance or value that does not exceed
$250,000 as of June 30, 2014, but exceeds $1,000,000 as of December 31 of 2015 or any
19/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
subsequent year, must be completed within six months after the last day of the calendar year in
which the account balance or value exceeds $1,000,000.
3. If there is a change of circumstances with respect to a Preexisting Entity Account that causes the
Reporting Indian Financial Institution to know, or have reason to know, that the self-certification
or other documentation associated with an account is incorrect or unreliable, the Reporting Indian
Financial Institution must redetermine the status of the account in accordance with the procedures
set forth in paragraph D of this section.
V. New Entity Accounts. The following rules and procedures apply for purposes of ifying U.S. Reportable
Accounts and accounts held by Nonparticipating Financial xitions among Financial Accounts held by
Entities and opened on or after July 1, 2014 w Entity Accounts").
A. Entity Accounts Not Required to Be Reviewed. Identified or Reported.
Unless the Reporting Indian Financial Institution elects otherwise, either with respect to all New Entity
Accounts or, separately, with respect to any clearly identified group of such accounts, where the
implementing rules in India provide for such election, a credit card account or a revolving credit facility
treated as a New Entity Account is not required to be reviewed, identified, or reported, provided that the
Reporting Indian Financial Institution maintaining such account implements policies and procedures to ;
prevent an account balance owed to the Account Holder that exceeds $50,000.
B. Other New Entity Accounts. With respect to New Entity Accounts not j described in paragraph A of this
section, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution j must determine whether the Account Holder is: (i) a
Specified U.S. Person; (ii) an Indian Financial Institution or other Partner Jurisdiction Financial Institution,
(iii) a participating FFI. a deemed-compliant FFI, or an exempt beneficial owner, as those j terms are
defined in relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations; or (iv) an Active NFFE or Passive NFFE.
1. Subject to subparagraph B(2) at this section, a Reporting Indian Financial Institution may
determine that the Account Holder is an Active NFFE, an Indian Financial Institution, or other
Partner Jurisdiction Financial Institution if the Reporting Indian Financial Institution reasonably
determines that the Account Holder has such status on the basis of the Account Holder's Global
Intermediary Identification Number or other information that is publicly available or in the
possession of the Reporting Indian Financial Institution, as applicable.
2. If the Account Holder is an Indian Financial Institution or other Partner Jurisdiction Financial
Institution treated by the IRS as a Nonparticiparing Financial Institution, then the account is not a
U.S. Reportable Account, but payments to the Account Holder must be reported as contemplated
in subparagraph 1(b) of Article 4 of the Agreement.
3. In all other cases, a Reporting Indian Financial Institution must obtain a self-certification from
the Account Holder to establish the Account Holder's status. Based on the self-certification, the
following rules apply:
(a) If the Account Holder is a Specified U.S. Person, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution
must treat the account as a U.S. Reportable Account.
(b) If the Account Holder is a Passive NFFE, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must
identify the Controlling Persons as determined under AML/KYC Procedures, and must
determine whether any such person is a U.S. citizen or resident on the basis of a self
certification from the Account Holder or such person. If any such person is a U.S. citizen or
resident, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must treat the account as a U.S.
Reportable Account.
(c) If the Account Holder is: (i) a U.S. Person that is not a Specified U.S. Person; (ii) subject to
subparagraph B(3)(d) of this section, an Indian Financial Institution or other Partner
Jurisdiction Financial Institution; (iii) a participating FFI, a deemed-compliant FFI. or an
exempt beneficial owner, as those terms are defined in relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations;
(iv) an Active NFFE; or (v) a Passive NFFE none of the Controlling Persons of which is a
U.S. citizen or resident, then the account is not a U.S. Reportable Account, and no reporting
is required with respect to the account.
20/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
(d) If the Account Holder is a Nonparticipating Financial Institution (including an Indian
Financial Institution or other Partner Jurisdiction Financial Institution treated by the IRS as
a Nonparticipating Financial Institution), then the account is not a U.S. Reportable Account,
but payments to the Account Holder must be reported as contemplated in subparagraph lib)
of Article 4- of the Agreement.
VI. Special Rules and Definitions. The following additional rules and definitions apply in implementing the
due diligence procedures described above:
A. Reliance on Self-Certifications and Documentary Evidence. A Reporting Indian Financial Institution
may not rely on a self-certification or documentary evidence if the Reporting Indian Financial Institution
knows or has reason to know that the self-certification or documentary evidence is incorrect or unreliable.
B. Definitions. The following definitions apply for purposes of this Annex I.
1. AML/KYC Procedures. "AML/KYC Procedures" means the customer due diligence procedures
of a Reporting Indian Financial Institution pursuant to the anti-money laundering or similar
requirements of India to which such Reporting Indian Financial Institution is subject.
2. NFFE. An "NFFE" means any Non-U.S. Entity that is not an FFI as defined in relevant U.S.
Treasury Regulations or is an Entity described in subparagraph B(4)(j) of this section, and also
includes any Non-U.S. Entity that is established in India or another Partner Jurisdiction and that
is not a Financial Institution.
3. Passive NFFE. A "Passive NFFE" means any NFFE that is not (i) an Active NFFE, or (ii) a
withholding foreign partnership or withholding foreign trust pursuant to relevant U.S. Treasury
Regulations.
4. Active NFFE. An "Active NFFE" means any NFFE that meets any of the following criteria:
(a) Less than 50 percent of the NFFE's gross income for the preceding calendar year or other
appropriate reporting period is passive income and less than 50 percent of the assets held by
the NFFE during the preceding calendar year or other appropriate reporting period are assets
that produce or are held for the production of passive income;
(b) The stock of the NFFE is regularly traded on an established securities market or the NFFE is
a Related Entity of an Entity the stock of which is regularly traded on an established
securities market;
(c) The NFFE is organized in a U.S. Territory and all of the owners of the payee are bona fide
residents of that U.S. Territory;
(d) The NFFE is a government (other than the U.S. government), a political subdivision of such
government (which, for the avoidance of doubt, includes a state, province, county, or
municipality), or a public body performing a function of such government or a political
subdivision thereof, a government of a U S. Territory, an international organization, a non
U.S. central bank of issue, or an Entity wholly owned by one or more or" the foregoing:
(e) Substantially all of the activities of the NFFE consist of holding (in whole or in part) the
outstanding stock of, or providing financing and services to, one or more subsidiaries that
engage in trades or businesses other than the business of a Financial Institution, except that
an entity shall not qualify for NFFE status if the entity functions (or holds itself out) as an
investment fund, such as a private equity fund, venture capital fund, leveraged buyout fund,
or any investment vehicle whose purpose is to acquire or fund companies and then hold
interests in those companies as capital assets for investment purposes;
(f) The NFFE is not yet operating a business and has no prior operating history, but is investing
capital into assets with the intent to operate a business other than that of a Financial
Institution, provided that the NFFE shall not qualify for this exception after the date that is
24 months after the date of the initial organization of the NFFE;
(g) The NFFE was not a Financial Institution in the past five years, and is in the process of
liquidating its assets or is reorganizing with the intent to continue or recommence operations
in a business other than that of a Financial Institution;
21/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
(h) The NFFE primarily engages in financing and hedging transactions with, or for, Related
Entities that are not Financial Institutions, and does not provide financing or hedging
services to any Entity that is not a Related Entity, provided that the group of any such
Related Entities is primarily engaged in a business other than that of a Financial Institution;
(i) The NFFE is an ''excepted NFFE" as described in relevant U.S Treasury Regulations; or
(j) The NFFE meets all of the following requirements:
i. It is established and operated in its jurisdiction of residence exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, artistic, cultural, athletic, or educational purposes; or it is
established and operated in its jurisdiction of residence and it is a professional
organization, business league, chamber of commerce, labor organization, agricultural or
horticultural organization, civic league or an organization operated exclusively for the
promotion of social welfare;
ii. It is exempt from income tax in its jurisdiction of residence;
iii. It has no shareholders or members who have a proprietary or beneficial interest in its
income or assets.
iv. The applicable taws of the NFFE's jurisdiction of residence or the NFFE's formation
documents do not permit any income or assets of the NFFE to be distributed to, or
applied for the benefit of, a private person or non-charitable Entity other than pursuant
to the conduct of the NFFE's charitable activities, or as payment of reasonable
compensation for services rendered, or as payment representing the fair market value of
property which the NFFE has purchased; and
v. The applicable laws of the NFFE's jurisdiction of residence or the NFFE's formation
documents require that, upon the NFFE's liquidation or dissolution, all of its assets be
distributed to a governmental entity or other non-profit organization, or escheat to the
government of the NFFE's jurisdiction of residence or any political subdivision thereof.
5. Preexisting Account. A "Preexisting Account" means a Financial Account maintained by a
Reporting Financial Institution as of June 30, 2014.
C. Account Balance Aggregation and Currency Translation Rules.
1. Aggregation of Individual Accounts. For purposes of determining the aggregate balance or value
of Financial Accounts held by an individual, a Reporting Indian Financial Institution is required
to aggregate all Financial Accounts maintained by the Reporting Indian Financial Institution, or
by a Related Entity, but only to the extent that the Reporting Indian Financial Institution's
computerized systems link the Financial Accounts by reference to a data element such as client
number or taxpayer identification number, and allow account balances or values to be aggregated.
Each holder of a jointly held Financial Account shall be attributed the entire balance or value of
the jointly held Financial Account for purposes of applying the aggregation requirements
described in this paragraph 1.
2. Aggregation of Entity Accounts. For purposes of determining the aggregate balance or value of
Financial Accounts held by an Entity, a Reporting Indian Financial Institution is required to take
into account all Financial Accounts that are maintained by the Reporting Indian Financial
Institution, or by a Related Entity, but only to the extent that the Reporting Indian Financial
Institution's computerized systems link the Financial Accounts by reference to a data element
such as client number or taxpayer identification number, and allow account balances or values to
be aggregated.
3. Special Aggregation Rule Applicable to Relationship Managers. For purposes of determining
the aggregate balance or value of Financial Accounts held by a person to determine whether a
Financial Account is a High Value Account, a Reporting Indian Financial Institution is also
required, in the case of any Financial Accounts that a relationship manager knows, or has reason
to know, are directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or established (other than in a fiduciary
capacity; by the same person, to aggregate all such accounts.
22/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
4. Currency Translation Rule. For purposes of determining the balance or value of Financial
Accounts denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, a Reporting Indian Financial
Institution must convert the U.S. dollar threshold amounts described in this Annex I into such
currency using a published spot rate determined as of the last day of the calendar year preceding
the year in which the Reporting Indian Financial Institution is determining the balance or value.
D. Documentary Evidence. For purposes of this Annex I, acceptable documentary evidence includes any of
the following:
1. A certificate of residence issued by an authorized government body (for example, a government
or agency thereof, or a municipality) of the jurisdiction in which the payee claims to be a
resident.
2. With respect to an individual, any valid identification issued by an authorized government body
(for example, a government or agency thereof, or a municipality), that includes the individual's
name and is typically used for identification purposes.
3. With respect to an Entity, any official documentation issued by an authorized government body
(for example, a government or agency thereof, or a municipality) that includes the name of the
Entity and either the address of its principal office in the jurisdiction (or U.S. Territory) in which
it claims to be a resident or the jurisdiction (or U.S. Territory) in which the Entity was
incorporated or organized.
4. With respect to a Financial Account maintained in a jurisdiction with anti-money laundering rules
that have been approved by the IRS in connection with a QI agreement (as described in relevant
U.S. Treasury Regulations), any of the documents, other than a Form W-8 or W-9, referenced in
the jurisdiction's attachment to the Ql agreement for identifying individuals or Entities.
5. Any financial statement, third-party credit report, bankruptcy filing, or U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission report.
E. Alternative Procedures for Financial Accounts Held bv Individual Beneficiaries of a Cash Value
Insurance Contract. A Reporting Indian Financial Institution may presume that an individual beneficiary
(other than the owner) of a Cash Value Insurance Contract receiving a death benefit is not a Specified U.S.
Person and may treat such Financial Account as other than a U.S. Reportable Account unless the Reporting
Indian Financial Institution has actual knowledge, or reason to know, that the beneficiary is a Specified U.S.
Person, A Reporting Indian Financial Institution has reason to know that a beneficiary of a Cash Value
Insurance Contract is a Specified U.S. Person if the information collected by the Reporting Indian Financial
Institution and associated with the beneficiary contains US indicia as described in subparagraph B(!) of
section I! of" this Annex I. If a Reporting Indian Financial Institution has actual knowledge, or reason to
know, that the beneficiary is a Specified U.S. Person, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must follow
the procedures in subparagraph B(3) of section II of this Annex I.
F. Reliance on Third Parties. Regardless of whether an election is made under paragraph C of section I of
this Annex I, India may permit Reporting Indian Financial Institutions to rely on due diligence procedures
performed by third parties, to the extent provided in relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations.
G. Alternative Procedures for New Accounts Opened Prior to Entry Into Force of this Agreement.
1. Applicability. If India has provided a written notice to the United States prior to entry into force of this
Agreement that, as of July 1, 2014, India lacked the legal authority to require Reporting Indian Financial
Institutions either: (i) to require Account Holders of New Individual Accounts to provide the self
certification specified in section III of this Annex I, or (ii) to perform all the due diligence procedures
related to New Entity Accounts specified in section V of this Annex I, then Reporting Indian Financial
Institutions may apply the alternative procedures described in subparagraph G(2) of this section, as
applicable, to such New Accounts, in lieu of the procedures otherwise required under this Annex I. The
alternative procedures described in subparagraph G(2) of this section shall be available only for those New
Individual Accounts or New Entity Accounts, as applicable, opened prior to the earlier of: (i) the date India
has the ability to compel Reporting Indian Financial Institutions to comply with the due diligence
procedures described in section III or section V of this Annex I, as applicable, which date India shall inform
the United States of in writing by the date of entry into force of this Agreement, or (ii) the date of entry into
23/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
force of this Agreement. If the alternative procedures for New Entity Accounts opened on or after July 1,
2014, and before January 1, 2015, described in paragraph H of this section are applied with respect to all
New Entity Accounts or a clearly identified group of such accounts, the alternative procedures described in
this paragraph G may not be applied with respect to such New Entity Accounts. For all other New Accounts,
Reporting Indian Financial Institutions must apply the due diligence procedures described in section III or
section V of this Annex I, as applicable, to determine if the account is a U.S. Reportable Account or an
account held by a Nonparticipating Financial Institution.
2. Alternative Procedures.
(a) Within one year after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, Reporting Indian Financial
Institutions must: (i) with respect to a New Individual Account described in subparagraph G( 1)
of this section, request the self-certification specified in section III of this Annex 1 and confirm
the reasonableness of such self-certification consistent with the procedures described in section
[II of this Annex I, and iiu with respect to a New Entity Account described in subparagraph G(1)
of this section, perform the due ! diligence procedures specified in section V of 'his Annex I and
request information as necessary to document the account, including any self-certification,
required by section V of this Annex I.
(b) India must report on any New Account that is identified pursuant to subparagraph G(2)(a) of this
section as a U.S. Reportable Account or as an account held by a Nonparticipating Financial
Institution, as applicable, by the date that is the later of: (i) September 30 next following the date
that the account is identified as a U.S. Reportable Account or as an account held by a
Nonparticipating Financial Institution, as applicable, or (ii) 90 days after the account is identified
as a U.S. Reportable Account or as an account held by a Nonparticipating Financial Institution, as
applicable. The information required to be reported with respect to such a New Account is any
information that would have been reportable under this Agreement if the New Account had been
identified as a U.S. Reportable Account or as an account held by a Nonparticipating Financial
Institution, as applicable, as of the date the account was opened,
(c) By the date that is one year after the date of entry into force of this - Agreement, Reporting
Indian Financial Institutions must close any New Account described in subparagraph G(1) of this
section for which it was unable to collect the required- self-certification or other documentation
pursuant to the procedures described in subparagraph G(2)(a) of this section. In addition, by the
date that is one year after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, Reporting Indian
Financial Institutions must: (i) with respect to such closed accounts that prior to such closure
were New Individual Accounts (without regard to whether such accounts were High Value
Accounts), perform the due diligence procedures specified in paragraph D of section II of this
Annex I, or (ii) with respect to such closed accounts that prior to such closure were New Entity
Accounts, perform the due diligence procedures specified in section IV of this Annex I.
(d) India must report on any closed account that is identified pursuant to subparagraph G(2)(c) of this
section as a U.S. Reportable Account or as an account held by a Nonparticipating Financial
Institution, as applicable, by the date that is the later of: (i) September 30 next following the date
that the account is identified as a U.S. Reportable Account or as an account held by a
Nonparticipating Financial Institution, as applicable, or (ii) 90 days after the account is identified
as a U.S. Reportable Account or as an account held by a Nonparticipating Financial Institution, as
applicable. The information required to be reported for such a closed account is any information
that would have been reportable under this Agreement if the account had been identified as a U.S.
Reportable Account or as an account held by a Nonparticipating Financial Institution, as
applicable, as of the date the account was opened.
H. Alternative Procedures for New Entity Accounts Opened on or after July 1, 2014, and before
January 1, 2015. For New Entity Accounts opened on or after July 1. 2014, and before January 1, 2015,
either with respect to all New Entity Accounts or. separately, with respect to any clearly identified group of
such accounts, India may permit Reporting Indian Financial Institutions to treat such accounts as Preexisting
Entity Accounts and apply the due diligence procedures related t Preexisting Entity Accounts specified in
section IV of this Annex I in lieu of the du diligence procedures specified in section V of this Annex I In
24/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
this case, the du diligence procedures of section IV of this Annex I must be applied without regard t the
account balance or value threshold specified in paragraph A of section IV of this Annex I.
Annex II
The following Entities shall be treated as exempt beneficial owners or deemed-compliant FFIs, as the case
may be, and the following accounts are excluded from the definition of Financial Accounts.
This Annex II may be modified by a mutual written decision entered into between the Competent
Authorities of India and the United States: (I) to include additional Entities and accounts that present a low
risk of being used by U.S. Persons to evade U.S. tax and that have similar characteristics to the Entities and
accounts described in this Annex II as of the date of signature of the Agreement; or (2) to remove Entities
and accounts that, due to changes in circumstances, no longer present a low risk of being used by U.S.
Persons to evade U.S. tax. Any such addition or removal shall be effective on the date of signature of the
mutual decision, unless otherwise provided therein. Procedures for reaching such a mutual decision may be
included in the mutual agreement or arrangement described in paragraph 6 of Article 3 of the Agreement.
I. Exempt Beneficial Owners other than Funds. The following Entities shall be treated as Non
Reporting Indian Financial Institutions and as exempt beneficial owners for purposes of 1
sections 1471 and 1472 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, other than with respect to a i payment
that is derived from an obligation held in connection with a commercial financial | activity of a
type engaged in by a Specified Insurance Company, Custodial Institution, or Depository
Institution.
A. Governmental Entity. The government of India, any political subdivision of India ;(which,
for the avoidance of doubt, includes a state, province, county, or municipality), or any
wholly owned agency or instrumentality of India, board, corporation, authority or any other
body established or constituted under an act of the Government of India or of its political
subdivisions or any one or more of the foregoing (each, an "Indian Governmental Entity").
This category is comprised of the integral parts, controlled j entities, and political
subdivisions of India.
1. An integral part of India means any person, organization, agency, bureau, fund, |
instrumentality, or other body, however designated, that constitutes a governing j
authority of India. The net earnings of the governing authority must be credited to its !
own account or to other accounts of India, with no portion inuring to the benefit of \ any
private person. An integral part does not include any individual who is a sovereign,
official, or administrator acting in a private or personal capacity.
2. A controlled entity means an Entity that is separate in form from India or that otherwise
constitutes a separate juridical entity, provided that:
(a) The Entity is wholly owned and controlled by one or more Indian Governmental
Entities directly or through one or more controlled entities:
(b) The Entity's net earnings are credited to its own account or to the accounts of one or
more Indian Governmental Entities, with no portion of its income inuring to the
benefit of any private person; and
(c) The Entity's assets vest in one or more Indian Governmental Entities upon
dissolution.
3. Income does not inure to the benefit of private persons if such persons are the intended
beneficiaries of a governmental program, and the program activities are performed for
the general public with respect to the common welfare or relate to the administration of
some phase of government. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, income is
considered to inure to the benefit of private persons if the income is derived from the use
of a governmental entity to conduct a commercial business, such as a commercial
banking business, that provides financial services to private persons.
25/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
B. International Organization. Any international organization or wholly owned agency or instrumentality
thereof. This category includes any intergovernmental organization (including a supranational organization)
(1) that is comprised primarily of non-U.S. governments; (2) that has in effect a headquarters agreement
with India; and (3) the income of which does not inure to the benefit of private persons.
C. Central Bank. An institution that is by law or government sanction the principal authority, other than the
government of India itself, issuing instruments intended to circulate as currency. Such an institution may
include an instrumentality that is separate from the government of India, whether or not owned in whole or
in part by India.
II. Funds that Qualify as Exempt Beneficial Owners. The following Entities shall be treated as Non
Reporting Indian Financial Institutions and as exempt beneficial owners for purposes of sections 1471 and
1472 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.
A. Treaty-Qualified Retirement Fund. A fund established in India, provided that the fund is entitled to
benefits under an income tax treaty between India and the United States on income that it derives from
sources within the United States (or would be entitled to such benefits if it derived any such income) as a
resident of India that satisfies any applicable limitation on benefits requirement, and is operated principally
to administer or provide pension or retirement benefits.
B. Broad Participation Retirement Fund. A fund established in India to retirement, disability, or death
benefits, or any combination thereof, to beneficiaries that are current or former employees (or persons
designated by such employees) of one or more employers in consideration for services rendered, provided
that the fund:
1. Does not have a single beneficiary with a right to more than five percent of the fund's assets;
2. Is subject to government regulation and provides annual information reporting about its
beneficiaries to the relevant tax authorities in India; and
3. Satisfies at least one of the following requirements:
(a) The fund is generally exempt from tax in India on investment income under the laws of
India due to its status as a retirement or pension plan;
(b) The fund receives at least 50 percent of its total contributions (other than transfers of assets
from other plans described in paragraphs A through D of this section or from retirement and
pension accounts described in subparagraph A( I) of section V of this Annex II) from the
sponsoring employers;
(c) Distributions or withdrawals from the fund are allowed only upon the occurrence of
specified events related to retirement, disability, or death (except rollover distributions to
other retirement funds described in paragraphs A through D of this section or retirement and
pension accounts described in subparagraph A(1) of section V of this Annex II), or penalties
apply to distributions or withdrawals made before such specified events; or
(d) Contributions (other than certain permitted make-up contributions) by employees to the
fund are limited by reference to earned income of the employee or may not exceed $50,000
annually, applying the rules set forth in Annex I for account aggregation and currency
translation.
C. Narrow Participation Retirement Fund. A fund established in India to provide retirement, disability, or
death benefits to beneficiaries that are current or former employees (or persons designated by such
employees) of one or more employers in consideration for services rendered, provided that:
1. The fund has fewer than 50 participants;
2. The fund is sponsored by one or more employers that are not Investment Entities or Passive
NFFEs;
3. The employee and employer contributions to the fund (other than transfers of assets from treaty
qualified retirement funds described in paragraph A of this section or retirement and pension
accounts described in subparagraph A(1) of section V of this Annex II) are limited by reference
to earned income and compensation of the employee, respectively;
26/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
4. Participants that are not residents of India are not entitled to more than 20 percent of the fund's
assets; and
5. The fund is subject to government regulation and provides annual information reporting about its
beneficiaries to the relevant tax authorities in India.
D. Pension Fund of an Exempt Beneficial Owner. A fund established in India by an exempt beneficial
owner to provide retirement, disability, or death benefits to beneficiaries or participants that are current or
former employees of the exempt beneficial owner (or persons designated by such employees), or that are not
current or former employees, if the benefits provided to such beneficiaries or participants are in
consideration of personal services performed for the exempt beneficial owner.
E. Investment Entity Wholly Owned by Exempt Beneficial Owners. An Entity that is an Indian Financial
Institution solely because it is an Investment Entity, provided that each direct holder of an Equity Interest in
the Entity is an exempt beneficial owner, and each direct holder of a debt interest in such Entity is either a
Depository Institution (with respect to a loan made to such Entity) or an exempt beneficial owner,
F. Regimental Fund or Non-public Fund of the Armed Forces. A fund established in India as a regimental
fund or non-public fund by the armed forces of the Union of India for the welfare of the current and former
members of the armed forces and whose income is exempt from tax under section I0(23AA) of the Indian
Income-tax Act of 1961.
G. Employees' State Insurance Fund. A fund established in India as an Employees' State Insurance Fund
under the provisions of the Employees' State Insurance Act of 1948, to provide medical expenses of low
income factory workers in India.
H. Gratuity Funds. A fund established in India under the Payment of Gratuity Act of 1972, to provide for
the payment of a gratuity to certain types of employees (e.g., factory and mining workers) of an Indian
employer specified in the Payment of Gratuity Act of 1972.
I. Provident Fund. A fund established in India under the Provident Fund Act of 1952 or the Employees'
Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Act of 1952 to provide current and former employees of Indian
employers retirement benefits in consideration for services rendered, provided that fund:
1. Does not have a single beneficiary with a right to more than five percent of the fund's assets;
2. Is subject to government regulation and provides annual information reporting about its
beneficiaries to the relevant tax authorities in India;
3. The fund is generally exempt from tax in India on investment income under the laws of India due
to its status as a Provident Fund; and
4. Contributions (other than certain permitted make-up contributions) by employees to the fund are
limited by reference to earned income of the employee or may not exceed $50.000 annually,
applying the rules set forth in Annex I for account aggregation and currency translation.
III. Small or Limited Scope Financial Institutions that Qualify as Deemed-Compliant FFIs.
The following Financial Institutions are Non-Reporting Indian Financial Institutions that shall be treated as
deemed-compliant FFIs for purposes of section 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.
A. Financial Institution with a Local Client Base. A Financial Institution satisfying the following
requirements:
1. The Financial Institution must be licensed and regulated as a financial institution under the laws
of India;
2. The Financial Institution must have no fixed place of business outside of India. For this purpose,
a fixed place of business does not include a location that is not advertised to the public and from
which the Financial Institution performs solely administrative support functions;
3. The Financial Institution must not solicit customers or Account Holders outside India. For this
purpose, a Financial Institution shall not be considered to have solicited customers or Account
Holders outside India merely because the Financial Institution (a) operates a website, provided
that the website does not specifically indicate that the Financial Institution provides Financial
Accounts or services to nonresidents, and does not otherwise target or solicit U.S. customers or
27/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
Account Holders, or (b) advertises in print media or on a radio or television station that is
distributed or aired i primarily within India but is also incidentally distributed or aired in other
countries, provided that the advertisement does not specifically indicate that the Financial
Institution provides Financial Accounts or services to nonresidents, and does not otherwise target
or solicit U.S. customers or Account Holders;
4. The Financial Institution must be required under the laws of India to identify resident Account
Holders for purposes of either information reporting or withholding of tax with respect to
Financial Accounts held by residents or for purposes of satisfying India's AML due diligence
requirements;
5. At least 98 percent of the Financial Accounts by value maintained by the Financial Institution
must be held by residents (including residents that are Entities) of India;
6. Beginning on or before July I, 2014, the Financial Institution must have policies and ; procedures,
consistent with those set forth in Annex I, to prevent the Financial Institution from providing a
Financial Account to any Nonparticipating Financial Institution and to monitor whether the
Financial Institution opens or maintains a ; Financial Account for any Specified U.S. Person who
is not a resident of India (including a U.S. Person that was a resident of India when the Financial
Account was ; opened but subsequently ceases to be a resident of India) or any Passive NFFE
with Controlling Persons who are U.S. residents or U.S. citizens who are not residents of India;
7. Such policies and procedures must provide that if any Financial Account held by a Specified U.S.
Person who is not a resident of India or by a Passive NFFE with Controlling Persons who are
U.S. residents or U.S. citizens who are not residents of India is identified, the Financial
Institution must report such Financial Account as would be required if the Financial Institution
were a Reporting Indian Financial Institution (including by following the applicable registration
requirements on the IRS 
FATCA registration website) or close such Financial Account;
8. With respect to a Preexisting Account held by an individual who is not a resident of India or by
an Entity, the Financial Institution must review those Preexisting Accounts in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Annex I applicable to Preexisting Accounts to identify any U.S.
Reportable Account or Financial Account held by a Nonparticipating Financial Institution, and
must report such Financial Account as would be required if the Financial Institution were a
Reporting Indian Financial Institution (including by following the applicable registration
requirements on the IRS 
FATCA registration website) or close such Financial Account;
9. Each Related Entity of the Financial Institution that is a Financial Institution must be j
incorporated or organized in India and, with the exception of any Related Entity that is a
retirement fund described in paragraphs A through D of section II of this Annex II, satisfy the
requirements set forth in this paragraph A; and
10. The Financial Institution must not have policies or practices that discriminate against opening or
maintaining Financial Accounts for individuals who are Specified U.S. Persons and residents of
India.
B. Local Bank. A Financial Institution satisfying the following requirements:
1. The Financial Institution operates solely as (and is licensed and regulated under the laws of India
as) (a) a bank or (b) a credit union or similar cooperative credit organization that is operated
without profit;
2. The Financial Institution's business consists primarily of receiving deposits from and making
loans to, with respect to a bank, unrelated retail customers and, with respect to a credit union or
similar cooperative credit organization, members, provided that no member has a greater than
five percent .interest in such credit union or cooperative credit organization:
3. The Financial Institution satisfies the requirements set forth in subparagraphs A(2) and A(3) of
this section, provided that, in addition to the limitations on the website described in subparagraph
A(3) of this section, the website does not permit the opening of a Financial Account:
4. The Financial Institution does not have more than $175 million in assets on its balance sheet, and
the Financial Institution and any Related Entities, taken together, do not have more than $500
28/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
million in total assets on their consolidated or combined balance sheets; and
5. Any Related Entity must be incorporated or organized in India, and any Related Entity that is a
Financial Institution, with the exception of any Related Entity that is a retirement fund described
in paragraphs A through D of section II of this Annex II or a Financial Institution with only low
value accounts described in paragraph C of this section, must satisfy the requirements set forth in
this paragraph B,
C. Financial Institution with Only Low-Value Accounts. An Indian Financial Institution satisfying the
following requirements:
1. The Financial Institution is not an Investment Entity;
2. No Financial Account maintained by the Financial Institution or any Related Entity has a balance
or value in excess of $50,000, applying the rules set forth in Annex I J for account aggregation
and currency translation; and
3. The Financial Institution does not have more than $50 million in assets on its balance sheet, and
the Financial Institution and any Related Entities, taken together, do not have more than $50
million in total assets on their consolidated or combined balance sheets.
D. Qualified Credit Card Issuer. An Indian Financial Institution satisfying the following requirements:
1. The Financial Institution is a Financial Institution solely because it is an issuer of credit cards that
accepts deposits only when a customer makes a payment in excess of j a balance due with respect
to the card and the overpayment is not immediately i returned to the customer; and '
2. Beginning on or before July 1, 2014, the Financial Institution implements policies and procedures
to either prevent a customer deposit in excess of $50,000, or to ensure that i any customer deposit
in excess of $50,000, in each case applying the rules set forth in | Annex I for account
aggregation and currency translation, is refunded to the customer within 60 days. For this
purpose, a customer deposit does not refer to credit balances to the extent of disputed charges but
does include credit balances resulting ; from merchandise returns.
IV. Investment Entities that Qualify as Deemed-Compliant FFIs and Other Special Rules
The Financial Institutions described in paragraphs A through E of this section are Non-Reporting Indian
Financial Institutions that shall be treated as deemed-compliant FFIs for purposes of section 1471 of the
U.S. Internal Revenue Code. In addition, paragraph F of this section provides special rates applicable to an
Investment Entity.
A. Trustee-Documented Trust. A trust established under the laws of India to the extent that the trustee of the
trust is a Reporting U.S. Financial Institution, Reporting Model 1 FFI, or Participating FFI and reports all
information required to be reported pursuant to the Agreement with respect to all U.S. Reportable Accounts
of the trust.
B. Sponsored Investment Entity and Controlled Foreign Corporation. A Financial Institution described in
subparagraph B(1) or B(2) of this section having a sponsoring entity that complies with the requirements of
subparagraph B(3) of this section.
1. A Financial Institution is a sponsored investment entity if (a) it is an Investment Entity
established in India that is not a qualified intermediary, withholding foreign partnership, or
withholding foreign trust pursuant to relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations; and (b) an Entity has
agreed with the Financial Institution to act as a sponsoring entity for the Financial Institution.
2. A Financial Institution is a sponsored controlled foreign corporation if (a) the Financial
Institution is a controlled foreign corporation1 organized under the laws of India that is not a
qualified intermediary, withholding foreign partnership, or withholding foreign trust pursuant to
relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations; (b) the Financial Institution is wholly owned, directly or
indirectly, by a Reporting U.S Financial Institution that agrees to act, or requires an affiliate of
the Financial Institution to act, as a sponsoring entity for the Financial Institution; and (c) the
Financial Institution shares a common electronic account system with the sponsoring i entity that
enables the sponsoring entity to identify all Account Holders and payees of the Financial
29/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
Institution and to access all account and customer information maintained by the Financial
Institution including, but not limited to. customer identification information, customer
documentation, account balance, and all payments made to the Account Holder or payee.
3. The sponsoring entity complies with the following requirements:
(a) The sponsoring entity is authorized to act on behalf of the Financial Institution (such as a
fund manager, trustee, corporate director, or managing partner) to ; fulfill applicable
registration requirements on the IRS 
FATCA registration ! website;
(b) The sponsoring entity has registered as a sponsoring entity with the IRS on the, IRS 
FATCA
registration website;
(c) If the sponsoring entity identifies any U.S. Reportable Accounts with respect to the
Financial Institution, the sponsoring entity registers the Financial Institution pursuant to
applicable registration requirements on the IRS 
FATCA registration website on or before the
later of December 31, 2015 and the date that is 90 days after such a U.S. Reportable
Account is first identified;
(d) The sponsoring entity agrees to perform, on behalf of the Financial Institution, all due
diligence, withholding, reporting, and other requirements that the Financial Institution
would have been required to perform if it were a Reporting Indian Financial Institution;
(e) The sponsoring entity identifies the Financial Institution and includes the identifying
number of the Financial Institution (obtained by following applicable registration
requirements on the IRS 
FATCA registration website) in all reporting completed on the
Financial Institution's behalf; and
(f) The sponsoring entity has not had its status as a sponsor revoked,
C. Sponsored, Closely Held Investment Vehicle. An Indian Financial Institution satisfying the following
requirements:
1. The Financial Institution is a Financial Institution solely because it is an Investment Entity and is
not a qualified intermediary, withholding foreign partnership, or withholding foreign trust
pursuant to relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations;
2. The sponsoring entity is a Reporting U.S. Financial Institution, Reporting Model 1 FFI, or
Participating FFI, is authorized to act on behalf of the Financial Institution : (such as a
professional manager, trustee, or managing partner), and agrees to perform, on behalf of the
Financial Institution, all due diligence, withholding, reporting, and ' other requirements that the
Financial Institution would have been required to perform if it were a Reporting Indian Financial
Institution;
3. The Financial Institution does not hold itself out as an investment vehicle for unrelated parties;
4. Twenty or fewer individuals own alt of the debt interests and Equity Interests in the I Financial
Institution (disregarding debt interests owned by Participating FFIs and deemed-compliant FFIs
and Equity Interests owned by an Entity if that Entity owns 100 percent of the Equity Interests in
the Financial Institution and is itself a sponsored Financial Institution described in this paragraph
C); and
5. The sponsoring entity complies with the following requirements:
(a) The sponsoring entity has registered as a sponsoring entity with the IRS on the SRS 
FATCA
registration website;
(b) The sponsoring entity agrees to perform, on behalf of the Financial Institution, all due
diligence, withholding, reporting, and other requirements that the Financial Institution
would have been required to perform if it were a Reporting Indian Financial Institution and
retains documentation collected with respect to the Financial Institution for a period of six
years;
(c) The sponsoring entity identifies the Financial Institution in all reporting completed on the
Financial Institution's behalf; and
30/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
(d) The sponsoring entity has not had its status as a sponsor revoked.
D. Investment Advisors and Investment Managers and Stock Brokers/Trading Members of Recognized
Stock Exchanges. An Investment Entity established in India that is a Financial Institution solely because it
(I) renders investment advice to, and acts on behalf of, or (2) manages portfolios for, and acts on behalf of,
or (3) executes trades on behalf of a customer for the purposes of investing, managing, or administering
funds or securities deposited in the name of the customer with a Financial Institution other than a
Nonparticipating Financial Institution.
E. Collective Investment Vehicle. An Investment Entity established in India that is regulated as a collective
investment vehicle, provided that all of the interests in the collective investment vehicle (including debt
interests in excess of $50,000) are held by I or through one or more exempt beneficial owners, Active
NFFEs described in subparagraph B(4) of section VI of Annex I, U.S. Persons that are not Specified U.S.
Persons, or Financial Institutions that are not Nonparticipating Financial Institutions.
F. Special Rules. T he following rules apply to an Investment Entity:
1. With respect to interests in an Investment Entity that is a collective investment vehicle described
in paragraph E of this section, the reporting obligations of any Investment Entity (other than a
Financial Institution through which interests in the collective investment vehicle are held) shall
be deemed fulfilled.
2. With respect to interests in:
(a) An Investment Entity established in a Partner Jurisdiction that is regulated as a collective
investment vehicle, all of the interests in which (including debt interests in excess of
$50,000) are held by or through one or more exempt beneficial owners. Active NFFEs
described in subparagraph B(4) of section VI of Annex I, U.S. Persons that are not Specified
U.S. Persons, or Financial Institutions that are not Nonparticipating Financial Institutions; or
(b) An Investment Entity that is a qualified collective investment vehicle under relevant U.S.
Treasury Regulations; the reporting obligations of any Investment Entity that is an Indian
Financial Institution (other than a Financial Institution through which interests in the
collective investment vehicle are held) shall be deemed fulfilled.
3. With respect to interests in an Investment Entity established in India that is not j described in
paragraph E or subparagraph F(2) of this section, consistent with I paragraph 3 of Article 5 of the
Agreement, the reporting obligations of all other Investment Entities with respect to such
interests shall be deemed fulfilled if the information required to be reported by the first
mentioned Investment Entity pursuant to the Agreement with respect to such interests is reported
by such Investment Entity or another person.
V- Accounts Excluded from Financial Accounts. The following accounts are excluded from the definition
of Financial Accounts and therefore shall not be treated as U.S. Reportable Accounts.
A. Certain Savings Accounts.
I. Retirement and Pension Account. A retirement or pension account maintained in India that satisfies the
following requirements under the laws of India.
(a) The account is subject to regulation as a personal retirement account or is part of a registered or
regulated retirement or pension plan for the provision of retirement or pension benefits (including
disability or death benefits);
(b) The account is tax-favored (i.e., contributions to the account that would otherwise be subject to
tax under the laws of India are deductible or excluded from the gross income of the account
holder or taxed at a reduced rate, or taxation of investment income from the account is deferred
or taxed at a reduced rate);
(c) Annual information reporting is required to the tax authorities in India with respect to the
account;
(d) Withdrawals are conditioned on reaching a specified retirement age, disability, or I death, or
penalties apply to withdrawals made before such specified events; and
31/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
(e) Either (i) annual contributions are limited to $50,000 or less, or (ii) there is a j maximum lifetime
contribution limit to the account of $1,000,000 or less, in each : case applying the rules set forth
in Annex I for account aggregation and currency translation.
2. Non-Retirement Savings Accounts.
(a) An account maintained in India (other than an insurance or Annuity Contract) that satisfies the
following requirements under the laws of India.
i. The account is subject to regulation as a savings vehicle for purposes other than for
retirement;
ii. The account is tax-favored (i.e., contributions to the account that would otherwise be subject
to tax under the laws of India are deductible or excluded from the gross income of the
account holder or taxed at a reduced rate, or taxation of investment income from the account
is deferred or taxed at a reduced rate);
iii. Withdrawals are conditioned on meeting specific criteria related to the purpose of the
savings account (for example, the provision of educational or medical benefits), or penalties
apply to withdrawals made before such criteria are met; and
iv. Annual contributions are limited to $50,000 or less, applying the rules set forth in Annex 1
for account aggregation and currency translation.
(b) An account established in India under the Senior Citizens Saving Scheme of 2004 to provide
Indian senior citizens saving schemes and savings and deposits account.
B. Certain Term Life Insurance Contracts. A life insurance contract maintained in India j with a coverage
period that will end before the insured individual attains age 90, provided that the contract satisfies the
following requirements:
1. Periodic premiums, which do not decrease over time, are payable at least annually during the
period the contract is in existence or until the insured attains age 90, whichever is shorter;
2. The contract has no contract value that any person can access (by withdrawal, loan, or j
otherwise) without terminating the contract;
3. The amount (other than a death benefit) payable upon cancellation or termination of the contract
cannot exceed the aggregate premiums paid for the contract, less the sum of mortality, morbidity,
and expense charges (whether or not actually imposed) for the period or periods of the contract's
existence and any amounts paid prior to the i cancellation or termination of the contract; and
4. The contract is not held by a transferee for value.
C. Account Held By an Estate. An account maintained in India that is held solely by an j estate if the
documentation for such account includes a copy of the deceased's will or . death certificate.
D. Escrow Accounts. An account maintained in India established in connection with any of the following:
1. A court order or judgment.
2. A sale, exchange, or lease of real or personal property, provided that the account satisfies the following
requirements:
(a) The account is funded solely with a down payment, earnest money, deposit in an amount
appropriate to secure an obligation directly related to the transaction, or a similar payment, or is
funded with a financial asset that is deposited in the account in connection with the sale,
exchange, or lease of the property;
(b) The account is established and used solely to secure the obligation of the purchaser to pay the
purchase price for the property, the seller to pay any contingent liability, or the lessor or lessee to
pay for any damages relating to the leased property as agreed under the lease;
(c) The assets of the account, including the income earned thereon, will be paid or otherwise
distributed for the benefit of the purchaser, seller, lessor, or lessee [ (including to satisfy such
32/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
person's obligation) when the property is sold, j exchanged, or surrendered, or the lease
terminates;
(d) The account is not a margin or similar account established in connection with a sale or exchange
of a financial asset; and
(e) The account is not associated with a credit card account.
3. An obligation of a Financial Institution servicing a loan secured by real property to set aside a portion of a
payment solely to facilitate the payment of taxes or insurance related to the real property at a later time.
4. An obligation of a Financial Institution solely to facilitate the payment of taxes at a later time;
E- Partner Jurisdiction Accounts. An account maintained in India and excluded from the definition of
Financial Account under an agreement between the United States and another Partner Jurisdiction to
facilitate the implementation of 
FATCA, provided that such account is subject to the same requirements and
oversight under the laws of such other Partner Jurisdiction as if such account were established in that
Partner Jurisdiction and maintained by a Partner Jurisdiction Financial Institution in that Partner
Jurisdiction.
VI. Definitions. The following additional definitions shall apply to the descriptions above:
A. Reporting Model FFI. The term Reporting Model I FF1 means a Financial Institution with respect to
which a non-U.S. government or agency thereof agrees to obtain and exchange information pursuant to a
Model 1 IGA, other than a Financial Institution treated as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution under the
Model 1 IGA. For purposes of this definition, the term Model 1 IGA means an arrangement between the
United States or the Treasury Department and a non-U.S. government or one or more agencies thereof to
implement 
FATCA through reporting by Financial Institutions to such non- U.S. government or agency
thereof, followed by automatic exchange of such reported information with the IRS.
B. Participating FFI. The term Participating FFI means a Financial Institution that has agreed to comply
with the requirements of an FFI Agreement, including a Financial Institution described in a Model 2 IGA
that has agreed to comply with the requirements of an FFI Agreement. The term Participating FFI also
includes a qualified intermediary branch of a Reporting U.S. Financial Institution, unless such branch is a
Reporting Model 1 FFI. For purposes of this definition, the term FFI Agreement means an agreement that
sets forth the requirements for a Financial Institution to be treated as complying with the requirements of
section 1471(b) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. In addition, for purposes of this definition, the term
Model 2 IGA means an arrangement between the United States or the Treasury Department and a non-U.S.
government or one or more agencies thereof to facilitate the implementation of 
FATCA through reporting by
Financial Institutions directly to the IRS in accordance with the requirements of an FFI Agreement,
supplemented by the exchange of information between such non-U.S. government or agency thereof and the
IRS.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REGARDING THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA TO IMPROVE INTERNATIONAL TAX COMPLIANCE AND TO
IMPLEMENT 
FATCA
At the signing today of the Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of India and the
Government of the United States of America to Improve International Tax Compliance and to Implement
FATCA (hereinafter the "Agreement"), the representatives of the Republic of India and the United States of
America wish to confirm their understanding of the following:
In reference to paragraph I of Article 10 (Term of Agreement), the Government of the United States of
America understands that the Government of the Republic of India plans to propose implementing
legislation and formulation of relevant regulations in 2015 with the goal of having the Agreement enter into
force by September 30, 2015. Based on this understanding, as of the date of signature of the Agreement, the
United States Department of the Treasury intends to continue to treat each Indian Financial Institution, as
that term is defined in the Agreement, as complying with, and not subject to withholding under section 1471
of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code during such time as India is pursuing the necessary internal procedures
for entry into force of the Agreement. The United States further understands that India's Ministry of Finance
intends to contact the United States Department of the Treasury as soon as it is aware that there might be a
33/34
about:blank
4/26/2018
Income Tax Department
delay such that India would not be able to provide its notification under paragraph I of Article 10 of the
Agreement prior to September 30, 2015,
In reference to subparagraphs l(y) and liz) of the Agreement (definitions of Cash Value and Cash Value
Insurance Contract), it is understood that a single premium life insurance contract that does not permit an
amount to be paid on surrender or termination of the contract and that does not allow amounts to be
borrowed under or with regard to the contract, does not constitute a Cash Value Insurance Contract, as such
term is used in the Agreement.
In reference to l.C of Annex II of the Agreement (Central Bank), it is understood that the Reserve Bank of
India is the Central Bank for purposes of the Agreement.
In reference to I. A of Annex II of the Agreement (Governmental Entity), it is understood that the
subsidiaries/associates of the Reserve Bank of India are controlled entities that are governmental entities
provided that:
(a) The subsidiary associate is wholly owned and controlled by one or more Indian Governmental
Entities (including the Reserve Bank of India) directly or through one or more controlled entities;
(b) The Entity's net earnings are credited to its own account or to the accounts of one or | more Indian
Governmental Entities, with no portion of its income inuring to the benefit of any i private
person; and
(c) The Entity's assets vest in one or more Indian Governmental Entities upon dissolution.
In reference to VI.B.4Q) of Annex I, it is understood that an Investor Protection Fund, as referred to in
Section 10. clause 23EA of the Indian Income-tax Act 196!. a Credit. Guarantee Fund Trust for Small
Industries as referred to in Section 10. clause 23EB of the Indian Income-tax Act 1961 and an Investor
Protection Fund, as referred to in Section 10. clause 23EC of the Indian Income-tax Act 1961 meet the
established and operated clause in Vl.B.4(j)(i) of Annex I and are treated as an Active NFFE for purposes of
the Agreement if VI.B4(j)(ii) through (v) are also satisfied.
In reference to III.B of Annex II, it is understood that (i) Regional Rural Banks constituted " under the
Regional Rural Bank Act 1976 (no. 21 of 1976), (ii) Urban Cooperative Banks constituted under respective
State Cooperative Societies Act or Multi State Cooperative Societies Act, (iii) State Cooperative
Banks/District Central Cooperative Banks constituted under respective State Cooperative Societies Act and
(iv) Local Area Banks licensed under the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 and regulated and registered as
public limited companies under the Companies Act, 1956 or Companies Act, 2013 are treated as Local
Banks within the meaning of the Agreement provided mat the asset test in paragraph 4 of III.B of Annex II
is met.
In reference to subparagraph 2(b) of Article 2 of the Agreement, it is understood that due diligence
procedures, that are broadly similar to the new account procedures in Annex I of the Agreement, are already
in effect under the domestic law of the United States, to the extent necessary for the provision of
information by Reporting U.S. Financial Institutions under this Agreement.
Signed at the Government of the Republic of India Ministry of Finance, North Block, New Delhi, India, in
duplicate, in the Hindi and English languages, this 9th day of July, 2015.
A controlled foreign corporation'' means any foreign corporation if more than 50 percent of the total
combined voting power of al! classes of stock of such corporation entitled to vote, or the total value of
the stock of such corporation, is owned, or is considered as owned, by "United States shareholders" on
any day during the taxable year of such foreign corporation. The term a "United States shareholder"
means, with respect to any foreign corporation, a United States person who owns, or is considered as
owning, 10 percent or more of the totai combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of
such foreign corporation.
34/34

Why Was FATCA Introduced?
FATCA was introduced as part of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act of 2010. The primary goal of the HIRE Act was to encourage U.S. businesses to hire more unemployed individuals following the 2008 financial crisis. FATCA, in turn, was designed to generate revenue to support these incentives by preventing tax evasion through undisclosed foreign accounts.

By targeting U.S. taxpayers who earn income or hold assets abroad, FATCA ensures that these individuals contribute their fair share of taxes. The law also places the onus on foreign financial institutions (FFIs) to report details of accounts held by U.S. citizens to the IRS, further enhancing compliance.

How Does FATCA Work?
FATCA operates on two levels:

Individual Reporting: U.S. taxpayers are required to report their foreign financial assets using IRS Form 8938. This form must be filed along with their annual tax return if their foreign assets exceed certain thresholds.
Institutional Reporting: Foreign financial institutions (FFIs), including banks and investment firms, are required to identify and disclose information about accounts held by U.S. citizens. Non-compliance by these institutions can result in penalties, such as a 30% withholding tax on U.S.-source payments.
Who is Considered a U.S. Person Under FATCA?
The term “U.S. Person” encompasses a broad range of individuals and entities under FATCA. These include:

U.S. citizens, whether living in the U.S. or abroad.
U.S. residents, including green card holders.
Domestic corporations, partnerships, and trusts organized in the United States.
Foreign students, researchers, and teachers in the U.S. with specific visas (e.g., F1, J1) who meet certain time-based criteria.
Individuals who meet the substantial presence test, which calculates physical presence in the U.S. over three years.
Who Needs to Comply with FATCA?
U.S. Taxpayers
FATCA requires U.S. taxpayers with foreign financial assets exceeding specific thresholds to file Form 8938. The thresholds vary depending on the taxpayer’s residency and marital status:

If living abroad:
Unmarried: File if assets exceed $200,000 at year-end or $300,000 at any time during the year.
Married filing jointly: File if assets exceed $400,000 at year-end or $600,000 at any time during the year.
If living in the U.S.:
Single: File if assets exceed $50,000 at year-end or $75,000 at any time during the year.
Married filing jointly: File if assets exceed $100,000 at year-end or $150,000 at any time during the year.
Foreign Financial Institutions (FFIs)
FFIs, such as banks and investment firms outside the U.S., must:

Report details of accounts held by U.S. taxpayers, including account balances, income, and withdrawals.
Provide identifying information such as the account holder’s name, address, and Tax Identification Number (TIN).
Comply with FATCA requirements to avoid penalties, such as a 30% withholding tax on U.S.-source payments.
Filing Requirements for NRIs
NRIs who qualify as U.S. Persons under FATCA must ensure compliance by:

Filing Form 8938 annually if their foreign financial assets exceed the relevant thresholds.
Reporting all sources of income earned in India, as these are taxable under Indian laws.
Even if taxes are deducted at source (TDS) in India, NRIs may need to report this income to the IRS to avoid penalties for underreporting or non-compliance.

Penalties for Not Complying with FATCA
Failure to comply with FATCA can result in significant penalties:

Initial Penalty: A $10,000 fine for failing to file Form 8938.
Additional Penalty: Up to $50,000 for continued non-compliance after IRS notification.
Underreported Taxes Penalty: A 40% penalty on any unpaid taxes related to foreign financial assets.
In addition, the IRS may extend the statute of limitations for tax review if foreign assets are not reported properly. However, penalties may be waived if there is a reasonable explanation for non-compliance.

How to Ensure Compliance with FATCA
For Individual Taxpayers:
Understand the Reporting Requirements: Familiarize yourself with the FATCA thresholds and filing obligations based on your residency and marital status.
Maintain Accurate Records: Keep detailed records of all foreign accounts and financial assets, including account statements and tax-related documents.
File Form 8938: Ensure that this form is submitted annually along with your federal tax return if your foreign assets exceed the specified thresholds.
For Foreign Financial Institutions (FFIs):
Register with the IRS: FFIs must register with the IRS to obtain a Global Intermediary Identification Number (GIIN).
Implement Reporting Systems: Establish systems to identify and report accounts held by U.S. taxpayers.
Avoid Penalties: Ensure compliance with FATCA requirements to avoid the 30% withholding tax on U.S.-source payments.
Impact of FATCA on NRIs
For NRIs, FATCA compliance can be complex due to overlapping tax obligations in India and the U.S. Key considerations include:

Double Taxation: Income earned in India may be subject to tax in both countries. However, the U.S.-India Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA) can help mitigate this issue.
TDS in India: Taxes deducted at source on income earned in India must be reported to the IRS, even if they have already been paid to Indian authorities.
Financial Institution Reporting: NRIs holding accounts in Indian banks or investing in Indian mutual funds must ensure that these institutions comply with FATCA reporting requirements.
Key Takeaways
FATCA requires U.S. citizens, including NRIs, to report their foreign accounts and financial assets annually.
The law applies to individuals living in the U.S. and abroad, with varying filing thresholds based on residency and marital status.
Non-compliance can result in hefty penalties, including fines and extended tax review periods.
Foreign financial institutions must also comply with FATCA by reporting U.S. account holders to the IRS.
By staying compliant with FATCA, NRIs can avoid unnecessary penalties and ensure proper reporting of their foreign financial assets. Consulting a tax professional can help navigate the complexities of FATCA and ensure adherence to both U.S. and Indian tax laws.


FATCA

The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) is a tax information reporting system. It mandates that financial institutions identify and report details of their U.S. account holders. This is accomplished through enhanced due diligence and periodic reporting, either directly to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or, in cases where an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) exists, to the appropriate local government authority.

 

FATCA's primary objective is to prevent U.S. individuals from using offshore accounts at foreign banks and financial institutions to evade U.S. taxes on the income generated from those assets. In essence, FATCA compels financial institutions to disclose information about U.S. persons holding accounts with them.

 

CRS

The Common Reporting Standard (CRS) is a worldwide standard for the automatic exchange of financial account information. Developed by the G-20 countries and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), it functions similarly to FATCA.

Under the CRS, participating countries collect financial information from their financial institutions and automatically exchange this information with other participating countries annually. Like FATCA, the CRS aims to facilitate the exchange of information between countries regarding account holders and investors with accounts in foreign jurisdictions, thereby preventing tax evasion on funds held abroad.

GUIDANCE NOTE  
ON  
FATCA and CRS 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE 
CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 
FOREIGN TAX & TAX RESEARCH DIVISION 
Updated as on 30th November 2016 
Purpose of the Guidance Note  
This Guidance Note is for providing guidance to the Financial Institutions, 
Regulators and officers of the Income Tax Department for ensuring compliance 
with the reporting requirements provided in Rules 114F to 114H and Form 61B of 
the Income-tax Rules, 1962. The Guidance Note is intended to explain the 
reporting requirements of FATCA and CRS in a simple manner. Since a large part 
of the Rules is based on IGA between India-USA and the CRS on AEOI, the 
Financial Institutions may refer to the IGA and CRS along with its Commentary to 
get further understanding of the terms used. In this Guidance Note, reference to the 
CRS and Commentary has been made at appropriate places. All the stakeholders 
are requested to provide feedback and suggestions so that Guidance Note can be 
further updated as per evolving issues in the implementation of FATCA and CRS. 
An attempt has been made to discuss and describe the various provisions contained 
in the relevant Rules notified by the Government of India. In case of unlikely event 
of any inconsistency between the Rules and Guidance Note, the statutory position 
contained in the Rules shall prevail. 
Document Revision List  
Date  
Details 
31st August, 2015 
Guidance Note on FATCA and CRS 
31st December, 
2015 
Guidance Note on FATCA and CRS as updated on 31st December 
2015 
31st May, 2016 
Guidance Note on FATCA and CRS as updated on 31st May 2016   
30th November 
2016 
Guidance Note on FATCA and CRS as updated on 30th  
November 2016   
 
 
Table of Contents 
  
1. Introduction ........................................................................................................................................... 1 
1.1 Enactment of FATCA and signing of IGA.......................................................................................... 1 
1.2 New Global Standards on Automatic Exchange of Information ..................................................... 1 
1.3 Commitment to Implement CRS on AEOI ....................................................................................... 2 
1.4 Steps taken for Implementation of CRS on AEOI and IGA............................................................... 2 
1.5  Overview of the reporting under FATCA and CRS .......................................................................... 3 
2. Reporting Financial Institutions ............................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 Introduction ..................................................................................................................................... 5 
2.2 Step 1: Is it an Entity? ...................................................................................................................... 6 
2.3 Step 2: Is the Entity a Financial Institution? .................................................................................... 6 
2.3.1 Custodial Institution ................................................................................................................. 7 
2.3.2 Depository Institution .............................................................................................................. 7 
2.3.3 Investment Entity ..................................................................................................................... 8 
2.3.4 Specified Insurance Company .................................................................................................. 9 
2.4 Step 3: Is the Financial Institution in India? .................................................................................. 10 
2.5 Step 4: Is the Financial Institution a Non-Reporting Financial Institution? ................................... 11 
2.6 NPS Trust as RFI ............................................................................................................................. 12 
3.1 Introduction ................................................................................................................................... 13 
3.2 Categories of Financial Accounts ................................................................................................... 13 
3.4   Custodial Account ........................................................................................................................... 14 
3.6 Cash Value Insurance Contracts ........................................................................................................ 15 
3.7 Annuity Contract ............................................................................................................................... 16 
3.8 Excluded Accounts ......................................................................................................................... 16 
4. Financial Accounts which are Reportable Accounts ............................................................................ 17 
4.1 Introduction ................................................................................................................................... 17 
4.2 Reportable Accounts by virtue of the Account Holder ................................................................. 18 
4.3 Reportable Accounts by virtue of the Account Holder’s Controlling Persons .............................. 19 
4.4   Centralized facilities for the clearing, settlement and deposit of securities .................................. 23 
5. Due Diligence Procedure ..................................................................................................................... 24 
5.1 Introduction ................................................................................................................................... 24 
 
 
5.2 Split between Preexisting Accounts and New Accounts ............................................................... 24 
5.3 Due Diligence for Preexisting Individual Accounts ........................................................................ 26 
5.4  Due Diligence for Pre-existing, Lower Value, Individual Accounts ............................................... 27 
5.5 Due Diligence procedure for Preexisting, High Value, Individual Accounts ..................................... 30 
5.6 Due Diligence for Pre-existing Entity Accounts ............................................................................. 36 
5.7 Due Diligence for New Individual Accounts .................................................................................. 40 
5.8 Due Diligence for New Entity Accounts ......................................................................................... 42 
5.9 Alternate Procedure in case of US Reportable Accounts .............................................................. 45 
5.10 Aggregation ................................................................................................................................. 47 
5.11 Joint Account ............................................................................................................................... 48 
5.12  New Fixed Deposit account as Preexisting Account .................................................................. 52 
5.14 Global Custodian and Local Custodian ........................................................................................ 53 
5.15  Obtaining Self-Certification ........................................................................................................ 53 
6.1 Information to be maintained and reported ................................................................................. 56 
6.2 Account Holder .............................................................................................................................. 57 
6.3  Tax Identification Number (TIN) ................................................................................................... 57 
6.4  Date of Birth ................................................................................................................................. 60 
6.5 Place of Birth ................................................................................................................................. 60 
6.6  Address ......................................................................................................................................... 60 
6.7  Jurisdiction of residence ............................................................................................................... 60 
6.8  Account Number .......................................................................................................................... 61 
6.9  Account balance or value ............................................................................................................. 61 
6.10 Reporting Period ......................................................................................................................... 62 
6.11 Custodial Account ....................................................................................................................... 62 
6.12 Interest Paid or credited ............................................................................................................. 63 
6.13 Currency ...................................................................................................................................... 63 
6.15 Due date for furnishing the Report ............................................................................................. 64 
7.     Issues Related to Trust etc .................................................................................................................. 65 
7.2 The treatment of a trust that is a RFI ........................................................................................ 65 
7.3 The treatment of a trust that is a NFE ....................................................................................... 67 
8. Procedure for Furnishing the Report ................................................................................................... 70 
9. Monitoring and Compliance ................................................................................................................ 72 
 
 
9.1 By Income Tax Department ........................................................................................................... 72 
9.2 By Regulators ................................................................................................................................. 72 
9.3 Requirement of obtaining GIIN ..................................................................................................... 73 
10. Contact details for further clarification ............................................................................................. 74 
Annexure A: Jurisdictions committed to implement AEOI in accordance with CRS and signatories of 
MCAA .......................................................................................................................................................... 75 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS .................................................................................................................................. 78 
Appendix A: IGA between India and USA ................................................................................................... 82 
Appendix B : Common Reporting Standard .............................................................................................. 113 
Appendix C : Rules 114F to 114H of Income-tax Rules, 1962 and Form 61B ........................................... 128 
Appendix D : Draft Self-Certification for Individual .................................................................................. 174 
Appendix E: Draft Self-Certification for Entities ....................................................................................... 176 
Appendix F: Notification No 4/2016 dated 06.04.2016 ............................................................................ 181 
Appendix G: Form 61B- Steps to Upload .................................................................................................. 184 
Prerequisites to upload Form 61B ............................................................................................... 186 
JAVA Utility – General Instructions ............................................................................................. 186 
Step 1: ITDREIN Generation.......................................................................................................... 186 
Step 2: Addition/deactivation of Authorised Person ............................................................. 187 
Step 3: Preparation of Form 61B for submission .................................................................. 187 
Step 4: Preparation DSC Signature File (Original Form 61B and Correction Form 
61B) ......................................................................................................................................................... 188 
Step 5: Uploading Form 61B ......................................................................................................... 189 
Step 6: Submission of Nil return .................................................................................................. 189 
Validation Rules – Form 61B Post upload ................................................................................. 190 
 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
AEOI     
CBDT    
CRS     
DTAA    
EOI     
FATCA    
FI     
FATF     
FT&TR    
Global Forum  
I&CI     
Income-tax Act   
KYC/AML    
MCAA    
NFE    
PMLA    
RBI     
RFI     
Rule    
SEBI     
TPL     
Automatic Exchange of Information 
Central Board of Direct Taxes 
Common Reporting Standard 
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement 
Exchange of Information 
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act 
Financial Institution 
Financial Action Task Force 
Foreign Tax & Tax Research 
Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for 
Tax Purposes 
Intelligence & Criminal Investigation 
Income-tax Act, 1961 
Know Your Customer/Anti Money Laundering 
Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement 
Non-Financial Entity 
Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002 
Reserve Bank of India 
Reporting Financial Institution 
Income-tax Rules, 1962 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
Tax Policy and Legislation 
1. 
Introduction 
1.1 Enactment of FATCA and signing of IGA 
In 2010, USA enacted a law known as “Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act” 
(FATCA) with the objective of tackling tax evasion through obtaining 
information in respect of offshore financial accounts maintained by USA 
residents and citizens. The provisions of FATCA essentially provide for 30% 
withholding tax on US source payments made to Foreign Financial Institutions 
unless they enter into an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service (US IRS) 
to provide information about accounts held with them by USA persons or 
entities (firms/companies/trusts) controlled by USA persons. Since domestic 
laws of sovereign countries (including India) may not permit sharing of client 
confidential information by FIs directly with USA, USA has entered into Inter
Governmental Agreement (IGA) with various countries. The IGA between India 
and USA was signed on 9th July, 2015. It provides that the Indian FIs will 
provide necessary information to the Indian tax authorities, which will then be 
transmitted to USA periodically. Under the IGA, USA will also provide 
substantial information about Indians having financial assets in USA. The text 
of the IGA signed between India and USA is available at Appendix A. 
1.2 New Global Standards on Automatic Exchange of 
Information 
To combat the problem of offshore tax evasion and avoidance and stashing of 
unaccounted money abroad requiring cooperation amongst tax authorities, the 
G20 and OECD countries working together developed a Common Reporting 
Standard (CRS) on Automatic Exchange of Information (AEOI). The CRS on 
AEOI was presented to G20 Leaders in Brisbane on 16th November, 2014. The 
Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, speaking on the occasion, supported the new 
global standard as it would be instrumental in getting information about 
unaccounted money hoarded abroad and in its eventual repatriation. The CRS 
on AEOI requires the financial institutions of the “source” jurisdiction to collect 
and report information to their tax authorities about account holders “resident” 
in other countries, such information having to be transmitted “automatically’ on 
yearly basis. The information to be exchanged relates not only to individuals but 
also to shell companies and trusts having beneficial ownership or interest in the 
“resident” countries. Further, the reporting needs to be done for a wide range of 
financial products, by a wide variety of financial institutions including banks, 
depository institutions, collective investment vehicles and insurance companies. 
The Standard is available at Appendix B. 
1 | P a g e 
 
2 | Page 
 
1.3 Commitment to Implement CRS on AEOI 
 
In keeping with its leadership role in developing the new global standard, India 
is one of the early adopters of the CRS and has committed to exchange 
information automatically by 2017. The Government of India has also, on 3rd 
June, 2015, joined the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement (MCAA) 
for exchanging information as per the above timelines. By December, 2015, 98 
jurisdictions have committed to exchange information as per the new global 
standards, 56 of them from 2017 and the balance 39 from 2018. 75 jurisdictions 
have also joined the MCAA. Table in Annexure A provides a list of the 98 
jurisdictions and the time for exchanging information.  
 
1.4 Steps taken for Implementation of CRS on AEOI and IGA 
 
1.4.1 In view of our commitment to implement the CRS on AEOI and also the 
IGA with USA, and with a view to provide information to other countries, 
necessary legislative changes have been made through Finance (No. 2) Act, 
2014, by amending section 285BA of the Income-tax Act, 1961. Income-tax 
Rules, 1962 were amended vide Notification No. 62 of 2015 dated 7th August, 
2015 by inserting Rules 114F to 114H and Form 61B to provide a legal basis 
for the Reporting Financial Institutions (RFIs) for maintaining  and reporting 
information about the Reportable Accounts. These Rules have been developed 
in consultation with Regulators and Financial Institutions in order to address 
their concerns wherever possible. A copy of the Rules from 114F to 114H the 
Income-tax Rules, 1962, is at Appendix C.  
 
1.4.2  The important timelines are summarized below: 
 
Cut-off date prior to which accounts are treated as 
pre-existing account under FATCA 
30.06.2014 
Date for considering New Account under FATCA 01.07.2014 
FATCA came into force in India 31.08.2015 
First reporting (for calendar year 2014) under 
FATCA 
10.09.2015 
Cut-off date prior to which accounts are treated as 
Pre-existing account under CRS 
31.12.2015 
Date for considering New Account under CRS 01.01.2016 
First reporting (for calendar year 2016) under CRS 31.05.2017 
 
The detailed relevance of the time-lines has been explained later in the guidance 
note. 
1.5  Overview of the reporting under FATCA and CRS 
The compliance related to reporting basically involves the following issues: 
a. Who is required to report? 
b. What is required to be reported? 
c. What is the format and timeline for reporting? 
First, an entity needs to find out whether it is a Reporting Financial Institution. 
Then, Reporting Financial Institution needs to review their financial accounts by 
applying due diligence procedures to identify whether any of the financial 
account is a Reportable Account. If any account is identified as a reportable 
account, then the Reporting Financial Institution shall report the relevant 
information in Form 61B in respect of the identified reportable account. 
The whole process of the reporting can be broken down into small steps and 
depicted as follows: 
Figure: Process of Reporting under FATCA and CRS 
3 | P a g e 
The building blocks of the reporting process shall be taken up in separate 
chapters of this Guidance Note .  
4 | P a g e 
2. 
Reporting Financial Institutions 
2.1 Introduction 
The reporting obligation applies to entities which may be legal persons or legal 
arrangements, such as a corporation, a trust, or a partnership etc. To determine 
whether an entity has a potential reporting obligation in India, it must be 
determined whether the entity is a Reporting Financial Institution (RFI). RFI are 
required to maintain and report certain information in respect of each 
“Reportable Account”. 
RFI is defined in Rule 114F(7) to mean:- 
(a) a financial institution which is resident in India, but excludes any branch 
of such institution that is located outside India; and  
(b) any branch of a financial institution (other than a non-reporting financial 
institution) which is not resident in India, if that branch is located in 
India.  
Financial Institution will not include Non-reporting Financial Institutions (See 
paragraph 2.5) even though they satisfy the above conditions.  
Following Steps may be followed to determine whether a person is a RFI and 
thus has reporting obligations: 
 Step 1: Is it an Entity? 
 Step 2: Is the Entity a Financial Institution? 
 Step 3: Is the Financial Institution in India? 
 Step 4: Is the Financial Institution a Non-Reporting Financial Institution?  
5 | P a g e 
Figure : The steps to identify a Reporting Financial Institution 
Step 1: Is it an Entity? 
No 
Ye
s 
Step 2: Is the entity a Financial 
Institution ? 
No 
Non-Reporting 
Non-Reporting 
Ye
Step 3: Is the Financial 
Institution  in India ? 
Ye
s 
Step 4: is the Financial 
Institution a Non-Reporting 
Financial Institution? 
No 
Reporting Financial Institution  
2.2 Step 1: Is it an Entity? 
No 
Ye
Non-Reporting 
Non-Reporting 
Only Entities can be RFIs. The term “Entity” would include legal persons and 
legal arrangements, such as corporations, partnerships, trusts, foundations and 
HUF. Individuals, including sole proprietorships, are therefore not RFIs. 
(Ref: Page 60 of CRS and 201 of Commentary) 
2.3 Step 2: Is the Entity a Financial Institution? 
The definition of Financial Institution in the Rule 114F(3) classifies FIs in four 
different categories, namely, 
 Custodial Institutions,  
 Depository Institutions, 
6 | P a g e 
 Investment Entities and  
 Specified Insurance Companies. 
2.3.1 Custodial Institution 
Custodial Institution is defined in Explanation (a) to Rule 114F(3) to mean any 
entity that holds, as a substantial portion of its business, financial assets for the 
account of others and where its income attributable to the holding of financial 
assets and related financial services equals or exceeds twenty percent of its 
gross income during:- 
 The three financial years that end on 31st March prior to the year in which 
determination is made or the period during which the entity has been in 
existence, whichever period is less. 
Entities such as central securities depositories (CSDL and NSDL), custodian 
banks, brokers, and depository participants, would generally be considered 
Custodial Institutions. 
(Ref: Page 44 of CRS and 160 of Commentary) 
2.3.2 Depository Institution 
Depository Institution is defined in Explanation (b) to Rule 114F(3) to mean 
any entity that accepts deposits in the ordinary course of a banking or similar 
business.  
An Entity is considered to be engaged in a “banking or similar business” if, in 
the ordinary course of its business with customers, it regularly engages in 
activities such as: 
(a) accepts deposits or other similar investments of funds; 
(b) makes personal, mortgage, industrial, or other loans or provides other 
extensions of credit; 
(c) purchases, sells, discounts, or negotiates accounts receivable, installment 
obligations, notes, drafts, checks, bills of exchange, acceptances, or other 
evidences of indebtedness; 
(d) issues letters of credit and negotiates drafts drawn thereunder; 
(e) provides trust or fiduciary services; 
(f) finances foreign exchange transactions; or 
(g) enters into, purchases, or disposes of finance leases or leased assets. 
Savings banks, commercial banks, savings and loan associations and credit 
unions would generally be considered Depository Institutions.  
(Ref: Page 44 of CRS and 160 of Commentary) 
7 | P a g e 
2.3.3 Investment Entity 
Explanation (c) to Rule 114F(3) defines two types of  investment entities: 
A. 
Entity’s primary business consists of one or more of the following 
activities for or on behalf of a customer, namely:- 
 trading in money market instruments (cheques, bills, certificates of 
deposit, derivatives, etc.); foreign exchange; exchange, interest rate 
and index instruments; transferable securities; or commodity 
futures trading; or 
 individual and collective portfolio management; or 
 otherwise investing, administering, or managing financial assets or 
money on behalf of other persons; and  
the gross income from such business activities has to be equal or more 
than 50% of the gross income over a three year period. 
B.  
Entity’s primary income is from business of investing, reinvesting, 
or trading in financial assets and such entity managed by another entity 
that is a depository institution, a custodial institution, an investment entity 
or a specified insurance company and also the gross income of the entity 
from such business activities is more than 50% of the entities gross 
income over a three year period. 
An Entity is “managed by” another Entity if the managing Entity performs, either 
directly or through another service provider, any of the activities or operations 
described in subparagraph A above, on behalf of the managed Entity. However, an 
Entity does not manage another Entity if it does not have discretionary authority to 
manage the Entity’s assets (in whole or part). Where an Entity is managed by a mix of 
Financial Institutions, NFEs or individuals, the Entity is considered to be managed by 
another Entity that is a Depository Institution, a Custodial Institution, a Specified 
Insurance Company, or an Investment Entity described in subparagraph A above, if 
any of the managing entities is such another entity.  
Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFCs) will be either depository institution or 
investment entity as per its activities. NBFC which accepts deposit in the course of a 
banking business or a similar business as mentioned in the definition of depository 
institution will be considered as Depository Institution and will report accordingly. An 
NBFC which is working as investment entity, will report accordingly. 
It is clarified that the terms and phrases used in the definition of investment entity 
shall  be interpreted in a manner consistent with similar language set forth in the 
definition of “financial institution” in the Financial Action Task Force 
Recommendations (as adopted in 2012). 
8 | P a g e 
(Ref: Page 44 of CRS and 161 of Commentary) 
Exception 
An investment entity established in India that is a financial institution, will be 
treated as Non-Reporting Financial Institution (See para 2.5), if it only 
(i) renders investment advice to, and acts on behalf of; or  
(ii) manages portfolios for, and acts on behalf of; or  
(iii) 
executes trades on behalf of,  
a customer for the purposes of investing, managing, or administering funds or 
securities deposited in the name of the customer with a financial institution 
other than a non-participating financial institution. 
2.3.4 Specified Insurance Company 
Specified Insurance Company is defined in Explanation (d) to Rule 114F(3) to 
mean any entity that is an insurance company (or the holding company of an 
insurance company) that issues, or is obligated to make payments with respect 
to, a Cash Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract. 
A “cash value insurance contract” is defined in Explanation (f) of Rule 114F(1) 
and it means an insurance contract (other than an indemnity reinsurance contract 
between two insurance companies) that has a cash value. For US Reportable 
account, a threshold of USD 50,000 has been provided.   
Similarly, annuity contract has been defined in Explanation (e) of Rule 114F(1). 
A single premium life insurance contract which does not permit an amount to be 
paid on surrender or termination of the contract and which does not allow 
amounts to be borrowed under or with regard to the contract, shall not constitute 
a cash value insurance contract.  
Insurance companies that only provide General Insurance or term Life 
Insurance should not be Financial Institutions and neither will reinsurance 
companies that only provide indemnity reinsurance contracts.  
(Ref: Page 44 of CRS and 165 of Commentary) 
2.3.5 Institutions which are involved in more than one category of activity 
If a reporting entity qualifies for more than one category of financial institutions 
[eg. (i) Depository Institution (ii) Custodial Institution] then the reporting entity 
9 | P a g e 
should get registered for all different categories and submit different form 61B 
for different type of financial institutions. 
There may be a situation in which one FI maintains more than one type of 
accounts [for example both Depository as well as Custodial account], however, 
the FI may qualify as only one type of financial institution.  In this case, FI shall 
register only as one type of financial institution but will report both types of 
accounts. 
For example, there may be one financial institution X which qualifies only as 
Depository Institution and maintains both depository as well as custodial 
accounts. . X will get registered only as Depository Institution but will report 
both types of accounts - depository as well as custodial accounts.  
2.4 Step 3: Is the Financial Institution in India? 
The Financial Institutions resident in India, their branches located in India and 
branches of Foreign Financial Institutions that are located in India are the 
Reporting Financial Institutions (RFIs) while Foreign Financial Institutions, 
their foreign branches and foreign branches of Indian Financial Institutions are 
not treated as RFI. A “branch” is a unit, business, or office of a Financial 
Institution that is treated as a branch under the regulatory regime of a 
jurisdiction or that is otherwise regulated under the laws of a jurisdiction as 
separate from other offices, units, or branches of the Financial Institution. A 
branch includes a unit, business, or office of a Financial Institution located in a 
jurisdiction in which the Financial Institution is resident, and a unit, business, or 
office of a Financial Institution located in the jurisdiction in which the Financial 
Institution is created or organised. All units, businesses, or offices of a 
Reporting Financial Institution in a single jurisdiction shall be treated as a single 
branch. 
In the case of Trusts, the reporting requirement is on the Trustees resident in 
India, unless the required information is being reported elsewhere because the 
trust is treated as resident there. 
(Ref: Page 44 of CRS and 158 of Commentary) 
Example: 
ABC Ltd. is located in India. It is having a foreign branch (S) located in a 
country outside India 
Under the terms of the agreement: 
 ABC Ltd. which is in India will only be Reporting Financial Institution in 
India. 
10 | P a g e 
 A foreign branch (S) will not be RFI as it is not located in India. 
Example: 
PQR Bank incorporated in London, has a branch (T) in India. 
Under the terms of the agreement, branch T is a RFI in India. 
2.5 Step 4: Is the Financial Institution a Non-Reporting 
Financial Institution? 
There are certain FIs which are not required to maintain or report the 
information. These FIs are called non-reporting financial institutions (NRFIs) 
and defined in Rule 114F(5). 
The NRFI defined in the Rule are as under: 
(a) a Governmental entity, International Organisation or Central Bank; 
(b) a Treaty Qualified Retirement Fund; a Broad Participation Retirement 
Fund; a Narrow Participation Retirement Fund; or a Pension Fund of a 
Governmental entity, International Organization or Central Bank; 
(c) a non-public fund of the armed forces, Employees’ State Insurance Fund, 
a gratuity fund or a provident fund; 
(d) an entity that is an Indian financial institution only because it is an 
investment entity, provided that each direct holder of an equity interest in 
the entity is a financial institution referred to in sub-clauses (a) to (c); 
(e) a qualified credit card issuer; 
(f) an investment entity established in India that is a financial institution only 
because it (i) renders investment advice to, and acts on behalf of; or (ii) 
manages portfolios for, and acts on behalf of; or (iii) executes trades on 
behalf of, a customer for the purposes of investing, managing, or 
administering funds or securities deposited in the name of the customer 
with a financial institution other than a non-participating financial 
institution; 
(g) an exempt collective investment vehicle; 
(h) a trust established under any law for the time being in force to the extent 
that the trustee of the trust is a reporting financial institution and reports 
all information required to be reported under Rule 114G with respect to 
all reportable accounts of the trust; 
(i) a financial institution with a local client base; 
(j) a local bank; 
(k) a financial institution with only low-value accounts; 
11 | P a g e 
(l) sponsored investment entity and controlled foreign corporation, in case of 
any U.S. reportable account;  
(m)sponsored closely held investment vehicle, in case of any U.S. reportable 
account. 
Explanation to Rule 114F(5) provides further explanation of the above 
categories of NRFI.  The definitions of the terms used such as a Governmental 
entity, International Organisation, Central Bank, Treaty Qualified Retirement 
Fund, Broad Participation Retirement Fund etc. are defined in the Rule 114F(5). 
(Ref: Page 45 of CRS and 166 of Commentary) 
2.6 NPS Trust as RFI 
National Pension System Trust (NPS Trust) is the nodal point for co-ordination 
of the operations of all intermediaries and is responsible for monitoring and 
evaluation of all operational and service level activities of all intermediaries in 
accordance with the provisions of the PFRDA Act, 2013 or the regulations 
made or guidelines or circulars issued by the Authority. The Board of Trustees 
is also responsible with regard to taking of action on reports submitted by the 
intermediaries in order to ensure compliance with the regulations applicable to 
them under the National Pension System. Accordingly, the NPS Trust is the RFI 
and would report the information for the relevant NPS Investors.  
12 | P a g e 
3. 
Financial Accounts  
3.1 Introduction 
A Financial Account is an account maintained by a Financial Institution and 
includes specific categories of accounts as discussed in paragraph 3.2. Rule 
114F(1) defines Financial Accounts. 
RFIs are required to review the Financial Accounts maintained by them and to 
identify whether any of Financial Accounts is held by a Reportable Person. 
Wherever account is held by a Reportable Person, such account becomes 
Reportable Account.  
There are certain types of Financial Accounts which carry low risk of being 
used to evade tax. These accounts are specifically excluded from review and are 
called Excluded Accounts (See Para 3.8). 
3.2 Categories of Financial Accounts 
There are broadly five types of financial account: 
Table: Who maintains the Financial Accounts 
Accounts 
Financial Institution generally considered to 
maintain them 
Depository Accounts 
The Financial Institution that is obligated to make 
payments with respect to the account (excluding 
an agent of a Financial Institution). 
Custodial Accounts 
The Financial Institution that holds custody over 
the assets in the account. 
Equity and debt interest in 
certain Investment Entities 
The equity or debt interest in a Financial 
Institution is maintained by that Financial 
Institution. 
Cash Value Insurance 
Contracts 
The Financial Institution that is obligated to make 
payments with respect to the contract. 
Annuity Contracts 
The Financial Institution that is obligated to make 
payments with respect to the contract. 
A Financial Institution may maintain more than one type of Financial Account. 
For example, a Depository Institution may maintain Custodial Accounts as well 
as Depository Accounts. 
13 | P a g e 
3.3 Depository Account 
Depository Account includes any commercial, checking, savings, time, or thrift 
account, or an account that is evidenced by a certificate of deposit, thrift 
certificate, investment certificate, certificate of indebtedness, or other similar 
instrument maintained by a financial institution in the ordinary course of a 
banking or similar business.  
A Depository Account includes an amount that an insurance company holds 
under an agreement to pay or credit interest thereon. 
A Depository Account does not have to be an interest bearing account. 
3.4   
Custodial Account 
Custodial Account which means an account (other than an insurance contract or 
annuity contract) for the benefit of another person that holds one or more 
financial assets. 
Custodial account would also include Mutual Fund holding in De-materialized 
format which would be required to be reported by depository/depository 
participant only. If mutual fund units are held in a physical format, the entity 
issuing the units will be responsible for reporting such custodial accounts. 
3.5 
Equity and Debt Interest 
3.5.1 Equity and debt interests are financial accounts if they are interests in an 
investment entity. 
An equity interest may vary depending on the nature of the investment entity. 
Equity interest in an investment entity, being- 
(a) a partnership firm means either a capital or profits interest in the 
partnership firm; 
(b) a trust means any interest held by any person treated as a settlor or 
beneficiary of all or a portion of the trust, or any other natural person 
exercising ultimate effective control over the trust. A person will be 
treated as a beneficiary of a trust if he has the right to receive directly 
or indirectly a mandatory distribution or may receive, directly or 
indirectly, a discretionary distribution from the trust. 
3.5.2 However, Financial account will not include any equity or debt interest in 
an entity that is an investment entity solely because it  
a. renders investment advice to, and acts on behalf of, or  
14 | P a g e 
b. manages portfolios for, and acts on behalf of,  
a customer for the purpose of investing, managing, or administering financial 
assets deposited in the name of the customer with a financial institution, that is 
not a non-participating financial institution other than such entity.  
Therefore, equity interests in Investment entity, which is only an investment 
advisor or investment manager, are not financial accounts.  
3.5.3 Examples of Investment entity can be collective investment vehicle, 
mutual fund, exchange traded fund, private equity fund, hedge fund, venture 
capital fund, leveraged buyout fund, or any similar investment vehicle 
established with an investment strategy of investing, reinvesting, or trading in 
Financial Assets. 
3.5.4 
There may some situations in which a Financial Institution can 
circumvent reporting under Rule 114G. Therefore, it has been expressly stated 
that if class of interests was established for the avoidance of reporting, that 
class of interest will be Financial Account and will be reported.  
3.5.5 
Debt or equity interests in a financial institution (other than as 
described in para 3.5.1 & 3.5.2) would constitute Financial Accounts if:- 
 The value of such interests is determined primarily by reference to 
assets that give rise to US Source Withholdable Payments; and 
 The class of interests was established for the avoidance of reporting 
under the Agreement. 
3.6 Cash Value Insurance Contracts 
Insurance contract means a contract under which the issuer agrees to pay an 
amount upon the occurrence of a specified contingency involving mortality, 
morbidity, accident, liability, or property risk. 
Cash value insurance contract means an insurance contract (other than an 
indemnity reinsurance contract between two insurance companies) that has a 
cash value and in case of a U.S. reportable account such value is greater than an 
amount equivalent to USD 50,000. 
Generally, Cash Value Insurance Contract is a type of investment product that 
has an element of life insurance attached to it. The life insurance element is 
often small compared to the investment element of the contract. Policyholder is 
entitled to receive payment on surrender or termination of the contract. 
Cash Value Insurance Contracts do not include: 
15 | P a g e 
 Indemnity insurance contracts between insurance companies 
 Term life insurance contracts 
 Property or motor insurance 
 Policies indemnifying against economic loss arising from specified 
circumstances, for example personal injury, theft, etc. 
 Micro insurance contracts that do not have a cash value 
3.7 Annuity Contract 
Annuity contract means a contract under which the issuer agrees to make 
payments for a period of time determined in whole or in part by reference to the 
life expectancy of one or more individuals. 
(Ref: Page 50 of CRS and 175 of Commentary) 
3.8 
Excluded Accounts 
3.8.1 There are few categories of financial accounts which have low risk of 
being used to evade tax and thus have been excluded from the need to be 
reviewed or reported. These accounts are called “Excluded Accounts”. These 
accounts have been enumerated in Explanation (h) to Rule 114F(1) as under:- 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
(vi) 
(vii) 
Retirement or pension accounts satisfying certain conditions 
Explanation (h)(i) to Rule 114F(1). 
Non-retirement tax-favored accounts subject to regulations and 
satisfying certain conditions Explanation (h)(ii) to Rule 114F(1). 
Account established under the Senior Citizens Savings Scheme 
Rules Explanation (h)(iii) to Rule 114F(1). 
Term Life Insurance contracts satisfying certain conditions 
Explanation (h)(iv) to Rule 114F(1). 
Accounts held by Estates Explanation (h)(v) to Rule 114F(1). 
Escrow Accounts established in connection with court judgments 
etc. Explanation (h)(vi) to Rule 114F(1). 
Depository accounts (other than US reportable accounts) due to 
non-returned overpayments in case of credit card and other 
accounts and satisfying certain conditions Explanation (h)(vii) to 
Rule 114F(1). 
(Ref: Page 53 of CRS and 184 of Commentary) 
16 | P a g e 
4. 
Financial Accounts which are Reportable Accounts 
4.1 Introduction 
4.1.1 Once a RFI has identified the Financial Accounts maintained by them, 
they are required to review those accounts to identify whether any of them are 
Reportable Accounts. If any of the financial account is found to be reportable 
account, information in relation to those accounts must be reported in Form 
61B.  
4.1.2 In general terms, a Reportable Account means an account, which has 
been identified pursuant to the due diligence procedure, as held by 
(a)  a reportable person; or 
(b) an entity, not based in United States of America, with one or more 
controlling persons that is a specified U.S. person; or 
(c) a passive non-financial entity (passive NFE) with one or more 
controlling persons that is a person described in sub-clause (b) of 
clause (8) of the rule 114F. 
4.1.3 Thus, an account can be a Reportable Account by virtue of the Account 
Holder or by virtue of the Account Holders’ Controlling Persons. This can be 
depicted as per following diagram: 
17 | P a g e 
4.2 Reportable Accounts by virtue of the Account Holder 
Rule 114F(6)(a) states that “reportable account” is a financial account, which 
has been identified, pursuant to the due diligence procedures prescribed in Rule 
114H, as held by a reportable person. 
Reportable person has been defined in the Rule 114F(8) and means- 
(a) one or more specified U.S. persons; or 
(b) one or more persons other than:  
i. a corporation the stock of which is regularly traded on one or more 
established securities markets;  
ii. any corporation that is a related entity of a corporation described in 
item (i); 
iii. a Governmental entity;  
iv. an International organisation;  
v. a Central bank; or  
vi. a financial institution 
that is a resident of any country or territory outside India (except United 
States of America) under the tax laws of such country or territory or an 
estate of a decedent that was a resident of any country or territory outside 
India (except United States of America) under the tax laws of such country 
or territory. 
Thus, generally speaking, there are two types of reportable person. First one has 
been defined specifically for USA. Second one is for the other countries.  
U.S. Person means, 
(a)  an individual, being a citizen or resident of the United States of America; 
(b) a partnership or corporation organized in the United States of America or 
under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof; 
(c)  a trust if,- 
(i)  a court within the United States of America would have authority under 
applicable law to render orders or judgments concerning substantially 
all issues regarding administration of the trust; and 
(ii) one or more U.S. persons have the authority to control all substantial 
decisions of the trust; or 
(c) an estate of a decedent who was a citizen or resident of the United States of 
America;  
18 | P a g e 
Specified U.S. person means a U.S. Person, other than the persons referred to 
in sub-clauses (i) to (xiii) of clause (ff) of Article 1 of IGA which is at 
Appendix A. 
(Ref: Page 57 of CRS and 192 of Commentary) 
4.3 Reportable Accounts by virtue of the Account Holder’s 
Controlling Persons 
4.3.1 Regardless of whether the Financial Account is a Reportable Account by 
virtue of the Account Holder, a second test in relation to the Controlling Persons 
of certain Entity Account Holders needs to be applied to ascertain whether the 
Controlling Persons of such Entities are residents of countries/territories outside 
India. If this test is satisfied, the account would be Reportable Account.  
4.3.2 In case of USA, first it needs to be identified whether account is held by 
an entity, which is not based in USA and if yes, whether one or more controlling 
person of entity is specified U.S. person. If both of conditions are satisfied, the 
account will be US Reportable Account. This can be depicted as per following 
diagram: 
Figure: Steps for USA Reportable Account 
Step 1: Is the Account Holder a 
non-US entity Entity? 
No 
Yes 
Step 2: Does the Entity have one 
or more Controlling Persons 
who are specified US person 
Yes 
USA Reportable Account   
No 
Not Reportable to USA 
in relation to the 
Controlling Persons 
Not Reportable to USA 
in relation to the 
Controlling Persons 
4.3.3 In the case of other countries/territories, if the account is held by a 
Passive Non-Financial Entity (NFE) with one or more controlling persons 
19 | P a g e 
resident in a country/territory outside India, then account will be reportable. 
This can be depicted as per following diagram: 
Figure: Steps for Other Reportable Account 
4.3.4 Non-Financial Entity (NFE) is an entity which is not a financial 
institution. There are two types of NFE - active and passive. The distinction is 
important since a financial institution in India is required to apply a higher 
standard of due diligence to financial accounts held by a passive NFE. The 
financial institution is required to determine whether the passive NFE is 
controlled by one or more Reportable persons. Active NFE has been defined in 
Explanation (A) to Rule 114F(6) and includes regularly traded entities etc.  
4.3.5 Passive NFE is defined in Explanation (D) to Rule 114F(6) as 
(i) any non-financial entity which is not an active non-financial 
entity; or  
(ii) an investment entity described in sub-clause (B) of clause (c) of 
the Explanation to clause (3) of Rule 114F 
(iii) not a withholding foreign partnership or withholding foreign 
trust 
4.3.6 The general rule is that a Passive NFE is an NFE that is not an Active 
NFE. The definition of Active NFE includes entities that are publicly traded (or 
related to a publicly traded Entity), Governmental Entities, International 
Organisations, Central Banks, or a holding NFEs of nonfinancial groups and 
essentially excludes Entities that primarily receive passive income or primarily 
20 | P a g e 
hold  amounts of assets that produce passive income (such as dividends, 
interest, rents etc.).  
However, an entity will not be active NFE which functions  or holds itself out as 
an investment fund, such as a private equity fund, venture capital fund, 
leveraged buyout fund, or any investment vehicle whose purpose is to acquire or 
fund companies and then hold interests in those companies as capital assets for 
investment purposes. 
4.3.7 If the Entity Account Holder is a Passive NFE then the Financial 
Institution must “look-through” the Entity to identify its Controlling Persons. 
If the Controlling Persons are Reportable Persons then information in relation to 
the Financial Account must be reported, including details of the Account Holder 
and each reportable Controlling Person. 
Controlling Person 
4.3.8 Controlling Person is defined in Explanation (B) to Rule 114F(6). 
Controlling person means the natural person who exercises control over an 
entity and includes a beneficial owner as determined under sub-rule (3) of rule 9 
of the Prevention of Money-laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005. 
It has been specified that in determining the beneficial owner, the procedure 
specified in the following circular as amended from time to time shall be 
applied, namely:- 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
DBOD.AML.BC. No.71/14.01.001/2012-13, issued on the 18th 
January, 2013 by the Reserve Bank of India; or 
CIR/MIRSD/2/2013, issued on the 24th January, 2013 by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India; or 
IRDA/SDD/GDL/CIR/019/02/2013, issued on the 4th February, 2013 
by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority. 
4.3.9 Controlling person includes beneficial owner. For different type of 
entities, beneficial owner are described as below: 
Entity 
Beneficial Owner is natural person(s) who whether acting 
alone or together, or through one or more juridical 
person 
Company 
a. 
b. 
has a controlling ownership interest (>25%) or  
who exercises control through right to appoint majority 
of the directors or to control the management or policy 
decisions including by virtue of their shareholding or 
21 | P a g e 
management rights or shareholders agreements or voting 
agreements 
Partnership 
Firm 
has ownership of/entitlement to more than fifteen per cent 
(15 %) of capital or profits of the partnership 
Unincorporated 
Association or 
Body 
of 
Individuals 
has ownership of or entitlement to more than fifteen per cent 
(15 %) of the property or capital or profits of such association 
or body of individuals 
4.3.10 
Where no natural person is identified as above, the beneficial 
owner is the relevant natural person who holds the position of senior managing 
official. 
4.3.11 
Where the client or the owner of the controlling interest is a 
company listed on a stock exchange, or is a subsidiary of such a company, it is 
not necessary to identify and verify the identity of any shareholder or beneficial 
owner of such companies. 
4.3.12  
In the case of a trust, the controlling person means the settlor, the 
trustees, the protector (if any), the beneficiaries or class of beneficiaries, and 
any other natural person exercising ultimate effective control over the trust, and 
in the case of a legal arrangement other than a trust, the said expression means 
the person in equivalent or similar position. If the settlor, trustee, protector, or 
beneficiary is an Entity, the Reporting Financial Institution must identify the 
Controlling Persons of such Entity as discussed above. 
4.3.13 
Thus, if the Controlling Persons of a Passive NFE having an 
account in a Reporting Financial Institution are persons resident of a 
country/territory outside India, the account becomes a Reportable Account for 
all such countries/territories outside India , for which the controlling persons are 
tax resident. The details of the controlling person(s) will also be reportable to 
the respective country (ies) or territory (ies) outside India. 
HUF 
4.3.14   
In the case of HUF, the financial account of  HUF shall be treated 
as an entity account. The due diligence of HUF accounts will be same as 
prescribed under PMLA/ KYC procedures. 
(Ref: Page 57 of CRS and 195 of Commentary) 
22 | P a g e 
4.4   
Centralized facilities for the clearing, settlement and deposit of 
securities 
In India, an entity designated under federal legislation to provide centralized 
facilities for the clearing, settlement and deposit of securities, commonly 
referred to as a Clearing Corporation, will not be treated as maintaining 
financial accounts. In India, such entities are National Securities Clearing 
Corporation Ltd (NSCCL), Indian Clearing Corporation Ltd (ICCL) and MCX
SX Clearing Corporation Ltd (MCX-SXCCL). 
23 | P a g e 
5. 
Due Diligence Procedure 
5.1 Introduction 
The RFIs need to identify the Reportable Accounts by carrying out due 
diligence procedures. There are different due diligence procedures for the 
accounts held by individuals and accounts held by entities. There is a further 
classification of accounts as ‘Preexisting accounts’ and ‘New Accounts’. This 
can be depicted as below:  
The standardized approach to be applied for carrying out due diligence 
procedure ensures quality of information to be reported and exchanged. The 
rules also utilize the information available under the existing processes such as 
those for Anti Money Laundering purposes. This is particularly the case for 
Preexisting Accounts where it is more challenging and costly for Financial 
Institutions to obtain new information from the Account Holder.  
RFIs should record the date of identification of account as reportable account 
which may be used for audit/compliance purposes. 
5.2 Split between Preexisting Accounts and New Accounts 
5.2.1 There are separate due diligence procedures for Preexisting and New 
Accounts. These accounts are differentiated on the basis of cut-off date. There 
are different cut-off dates for FATCA and CRS. 
Pre-existing account means a financial account maintained by a RFI-  
i. in case of a U.S. reportable account, as on the 30th June, 2014; and  
24 | P a g e 
ii. in case of other reportable account, as on the 31st December 2015. 
New account means a financial account maintained by a RFI opened on or 
after,  
i. 
ii. 
in case of a U.S. reportable account, the 1st July, 2014; and  
in case of other reportable account, the 1st January, 2016 
5.2.2  The due diligence procedure is also dependent on balance/value of the 
financial account. On the basis of balance/value, accounts are also classified 
High value and Lower value accounts. This can be depicted in the following 
table: 
Classification 
of accounts 
Status 
Value 
Due Diligence Threshold 
Preexisting
US (as on 
30.06.2014) 
Individual 
High Value 
Account 
Account balance or value 
exceeds $1,000,000 
Lower Value 
Account 
Entity 
NA 
Account balance or value 
exceeds $50,000 but does not 
exceed $1,000,000 
Account balance or value 
exceeds $250,000 
New-US 
(opened after 
30.06.2014) 
Individual 
NA 
Account balance or value 
exceeds $ 50,000*  
Entity 
Individual 
NA 
No threshold 
Preexisting
Other (as on 
31.12.2015) 
High Value 
Account 
Account balance or value 
exceeds $ 1,000,000 
Entity 
Lower Value 
Account 
NA 
Account balance or value does 
not exceed $1,000,000 
Account balance or value 
exceeds $250,000 
New-Other 
(opened after 
31.12.2015) 
Individual 
NA 
No threshold 
Entity 
NA 
No threshold 
* only for depository account and cash value insurance contract 
5.2.3 In the case of USA, the accounts opened from 1st July, 2014 to the date of 
entry into force of the IGA between India and USA, i.e., 31st August, 2015, 
there is an alternate procedure for due diligence prescribed in Rule 114H(8). 
This is further described in paragraph 5.9. 
25 | P a g e 
5.3 Due Diligence for Preexisting Individual Accounts 
5.3.1 There are separate due diligence procedures for “high value account” and 
“lower value account”. 
What is High Value Account? 
The high value account is defined in Rule 114H(2)(b) as  
 In case of U.S. Reportable accounts, balance or value exceeding an 
amount equal to USD 1,000,000 as on 30th June, 2014 or 31st December 
of any subsequent year 
 In case of other reportable accounts, balance or value exceeding an 
amount equal to USD 1,000,000 as on 31st December, 2015 or 31st 
December of any subsequent year. 
What is Lower Value account? 
The Lower Value account is defined in Rule 114H(2)(c ) as 
 In case of U.S. Reportable accounts, balance or value exceeds an amount 
equal to USD 50,000 but does not exceed an amount equal to one million 
dollars as on 30th June, 2014 or 31st December of any subsequent year 
 In case of other reportable accounts, does not exceed an amount equal to 
one million dollars as on 31st December, 2015 or 31st December of any 
subsequent year. 
Table: High Value and Low Value Accounts 
Classification 
Category 
Balance or value 
US Reportable 
High Value 
Balance exceeding USD 1,000,000 as on 
30th June, 2014 or 31st December of any 
subsequent year 
Lower Value balance exceeding  USD 50,000 but less 
than USD 1,000,000 as on 30th June, 2014 
or 31st December of any subsequent year 
Other Reportable 
High Value 
USD 1,000,000 as on 31st December, 2015 
or 31st December of any subsequent year. 
Lower Value Balance less than USD 1,000,000 as on 31st 
December, 2015 or 31st December of any 
subsequent year. 
26 | P a g e 
Accounts not required to be reviewed or reported 
5.3.2 There are certain preexisting individual accounts which are not required 
to be reviewed or reported. Rule 114H(3)(a) describes the criterion which is as 
follows:  
 In case of US reportable accounts 
o If the account balance or value as on 30th June, 2014 does not 
exceed USD 50,000; 
o If the account is a cash value insurance contract or an annuity 
contract, and account  balance or value as on 30th June, 2014 does 
not exceed  USD 250,000; 
o If the account is a cash value insurance contract or an annuity 
contract and the RFI, under any other law for the time being in 
force in India or of the USA, is prevented from selling such 
contract to a person who is a resident of the USA. 
 In case of other reportable accounts  
o If it is a cash value insurance contract or an annuity contract and 
RFI, under any other law for the time being in force in India, is 
prevented from selling such contract to a person who is not a tax 
resident of India. 
 All other accounts are required to be reviewed unless they are excluded 
accounts. 
Thus it can be seen that while there is threshold account balance below which 
preexisting individual accounts are not required to be reviewed and reported 
under FATCA, there is no such threshold for CRS. 
5.4  
Due Diligence for Pre-existing, Lower Value, Individual Accounts 
5.4.1 The due diligence procedure for lower value pre-existing individual 
accounts is prescribed in Rule 114H(3)(b).  
5.4.2 RFIs must review its electronically searchable data to find out any of the 
following indicia: 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
identification of the account holder as a resident of any country or 
territory outside India for tax purposes or unambiguous indication of a 
place of birth in USA; 
current mailing or residence address (including a post office box) in any 
country or territory outside India; 
one or more telephone numbers in a country or territory outside India and 
no telephone number in India; 
27 | P a g e 
iv. 
standing instructions (other than a Depository Account in the case of 
CRS) to transfer funds to an account maintained in a country or territory 
outside India; 
v. 
vi. 
currently effective power of attorney or signatory authority granted to a 
person with an address in a country or territory outside India; 
a “hold mail” instruction or “in-care-of” address in a country or territory 
outside India if the reporting financial institution does not have any other 
address on file for the account holder. 
Figure: Due Diligence for Preexisting, Lower Value, Individual Accounts 
5.4.3 If none of the indicia are discovered in the electronic search, no further 
action is required unless 
 there is a change in circumstances which results in one or more indicia 
being associated with the account, or  
 the account becomes a high value account. 
5.4.4 If any indicia listed above are discovered in the electronic search or if 
there is any change of circumstances which results in one or more indicia being 
28 | P a g e 
associated with the account, then the RFI shall treat the accountholder as 
resident of each such country or territory for which an indicia is identified. 
5.4.5 In cases where RFI does not maintain electronic database enabling a 
search, RFI would be required to perform a paper search to identify the indicia. 
Undocumented Account Procedure 
5.4.6 However, if after the electronic search, the only indicia found is a “hold 
mail” or “in-care” address, special procedures are applied and the RFIs need to  
 Apply paper record search, or 
 Obtain from the account holder a self-certification or documentary 
evidence to establish the residence. 
If neither of these procedures successfully establishes the account holder’s 
residence for tax purposes, then RFI must report the account as undocumented 
account. 
Curing of Indicia 
5.4.7 There may be occasions when the electronic record search gives 
indications of residence in any country or territory outside India that the RFI 
considers may be incorrect. In such circumstances the RFI may take steps to 
‘cure’ the information before treating the Account Holder as a Reportable 
Person.  
Where the financial institution holds information about the Account Holder that 
includes any of  
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
a current mailing address in any country or territory outside India,  
one or more telephone numbers in any country or territory outside India 
(no telephone number in India),  
standing instructions, to transfer funds to an account maintained in any 
country or territory outside India (other than a Depository Account in the 
case of CRS), or  
a currently effective power of attorney or signatory authority granted to a 
person with an address in any country or territory outside India, then  
the RFI must obtain a self-certification from the Account Holder to establish the 
jurisdiction of residence. The RFI can rely on self-certifications it has 
previously reviewed and maintained a record of, but in either case the self
29 | P a g e 
certification must be supported by Documentary Evidence. If the self
certification supported by Documentary Evidence establishes that the Account 
Holder is not a Reportable Person then the RFI is not required to treat the 
Account Holder as Reportable Person. 
Curing of Indicia (for US reportable account) 
5.4.8 In case of US Reportable Account, indicia can be cured in one more way. 
Where the indicia found is an unambiguous US place of birth, then RFI may not 
report the account if the RFI obtains or currently maintains a record of all of the 
following: 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
a self-certification that the account holder is neither a citizen of the United 
States of America nor its resident for tax purposes; 
a passport or other Government-issued identification evidencing the 
account holder’s citizenship or nationality in a country other than the 
United States of America; and 
a copy of the account holder’s certificate of loss of nationality of the 
United States of America or a reasonable explanation of- 
(1) the reason, the account holder does not have such a certificate despite 
relinquishing citizenship of the United States of America; or 
(2) the reason, the account holder did not obtain citizenship of the United 
States of America at birth 
5.5 Due Diligence procedure for Preexisting, High Value, Individual 
Accounts 
5.5.1 The due diligence procedure for high value pre-existing individual 
accounts is prescribed in Rule 114H(3)(c). 
5.5.2 For high value accounts, there is a three-stage due diligence procedure- 
electronic stage, paper search and relationship manager enquiry. First, RFI 
needs to search its electronic searchable database in case of a customer. If this 
includes following information, no further paper record search by RFI is 
required: 
 the account holder’s residence status for tax purposes; 
 the account holder’s residence address and mailing address currently on 
file with the reporting financial institution; 
 the account holder’s telephone number or numbers currently on file, if 
any, with the reporting financial institution; 
30 | P a g e 
 in the case of financial accounts other than depository accounts, whether 
there are standing instructions  (other than a Depository Account in the 
case of CRS) to transfer funds in the account to another account 
(including an account at another branch of the reporting financial 
institution or another financial institution); 
 whether there is a current “in-care-of” address or “hold mail” instruction 
for the account holder; and 
 whether there is any power of attorney or signatory authority for the 
account.  
Figure: Due Diligence for Preexisting, High Value, Individual Accounts 
5.5.3 If the electronic searchable database includes fields for and capture all of 
the above information, then Reporting Financial Institution is not required to do 
a paper record search. 
5.5.4 But if it does not, then RFI needs to review the current customer master 
file for paper search and the documents obtained during the last five years for 
identification of any of the following indicia: 
31 | P a g e 
 The most recent documentary evidence; 
 The most recent account opening contract or documentation; 
 The most recent documentation obtained by the Reporting FI pursuant to 
rules framed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 
2003) or any other law for the time being in force; 
 Any power of attorney or signature authority forms currently in effect; 
and 
 Any standing instructions (other than a Depository Account in the case of 
CRS) to transfer fund currently in effect. 
Relationship Manager (RM) Test 
5.5.5 In addition to above electronic and paper search, RFI has to apply 
Relationship Manager (RM) test on the high value accounts.  
A relationship manager is an employee or officer of the financial institution who 
has been assigned responsibility for specific Account Holders on an ongoing 
basis. A relationship manager will provide advice to Account Holders regarding 
their accounts as well as recommending and arranging for the provision of 
financial products, services and other related assistance.  
Relationship management must be more than ancillary or incidental to a 
person’s job role. Thus a person with some contact with Account Holders, but 
whose functions are administrative or clerical nature, is not considered to be a 
relationship manager. 
RFI must consider whether any relationship manager associated with an 
account, which includes any accounts aggregated with such an account, has 
actual knowledge that would identify the Account Holder as a Reportable 
Person.  
The relationship manager also has an important role in identifying any change 
of circumstance in relation to a high value individual account. A financial 
institution must ensure that it has procedures in place to capture changes that are 
made known to the relationship manager in respect of the Account Holder’s 
reportable status. 
The following examples illustrate how to determine whether an employee of a 
Reporting Financial Institution is a relationship manager: 
Example 1: An individual, P, holds a custodial account with R, a bank that is a 
Reporting Financial Institution. The value in P’s account at the end of year is 
USD 1,200,000. An employee of R’s private banking department, O, oversees 
32 | P a g e 
the account of P on an on-going basis. Because O satisfies the definition of 
“relationship manager” and the value in P’s account is more than USD 
1,000,000, O is a relationship manager with respect to P’s account. 
Example 2: Same facts as Example 1, except that the value in P’s custodial 
account at the end of year is USD 800,000. In addition, P also holds a 
depository account with R, the balance of which at the end of year is USD 
400,000. Both accounts are associated with P and with one another by reference 
to R’s internal identification number. Because O satisfies the definition of 
“relationship manager” and, once the account aggregation rules have been 
applied, the aggregated balance or value in P’s accounts is more than USD 
1,000,000, O is a relationship manager with respect to P’s accounts. 
Example 3: Same facts as Example 2, except that O’s functions do not involve 
direct contact with P. Because O does not satisfy the definition of “relationship 
manager”, O is not a relationship manager with respect to P’s accounts. 
A reporting financial institution shall implement procedures to ensure that a 
relationship manager identifies any change in circumstances of an account and 
where the relationship manager is informed that the account holder has a new 
mailing address in any country or territory outside India, the reporting financial 
institution is required to treat the new address as a change in circumstances. 
Effect of finding indicia 
5.5.6 If after application of above due diligence procedures: 
 none of the indicia are discovered and the account is not identified as 
held by reportable persons, then no further action is required until there 
is change of circumstances, 
 If any of the indicia are discovered or there is change of circumstances, 
then the RFI shall treat the account as a reportable account with respect 
to each country or territory outside India for which the indicia is 
identified unless the indicia is cured. 
Curing of Indicia 
The process of curing of indicia is same as that of lower value accounts and can 
be referred in paragraph 5.4.7 & 5.4.8 
Undocumented Account Procedure 
5.5.7 If a “hold mail” instruction or “in-care-of” address is discovered in the 
electronic search and no other address and none of the other indicia is 
33 | P a g e 
discovered, special procedures are applied and the RFIs need to obtain from the 
account holder a self-certification or documentary evidence to establish the 
residence. 
If neither of these procedures successfully establishes the account holder’s 
residence for tax purposes, then RFI must report the account as undocumented 
account.  
5.5.8   
In respect of pre-existing individual account, if self-certification or 
documentary evidence is not obtained from the account holder (till the deadline 
of completing the due diligence procedures as laid down in the rules) in 
remediation of any of the indicia found in electronic search, paper record search 
or RM’s search, the account will be an undocumented reportable account.  
Other Procedures 
5.5.9 
If a US reportable pre-existing individual account is not a high 
value account as on the 30th June, 2014, but becomes a high value account as on 
31st December 2015, the RFI shall complete the enhanced review procedures 
discussed above with respect to such account within the calendar year following 
the year in which the account becomes a high value account and if based on 
such review the account is identified as a reportable account, the reporting 
financial institution shall report the required information about such account 
with respect to the year in which it is identified as a reportable account and 
subsequent years on an annual basis, unless the account holder ceases to be a 
reportable person. 
Example: 
A US Reportable Account with a balance or value of USD 48,000 as on June 
30, 2014 becomes high value account i.e. the account balance as on December 
31, 2015 is USD 1,150,000. In such a case, the RFI should carry out the 
enhanced due diligence process to identify whether it is a US Reportable 
account or not. If due diligence is completed in March 2016, the account 
becomes reportable for calendar year 2016 and subsequent years. 
5.5.10 
If an Other reportable pre-existing individual account is not a high 
value account as on the 31st  December 2015, but becomes a high value account 
as on the last day of any subsequent year, the reporting financial institution shall 
complete the enhanced review procedures discussed above with respect to such 
account within the calendar year following the year in which the account 
becomes a high value account and if based on such review the account is 
identified as a reportable account, the reporting financial institution shall report 
the required information about such account with respect to the year in which it 
34 | P a g e 
is identified as a reportable account and subsequent years on an annual basis, 
unless the account holder ceases to be a reportable person. 
5.5.11 
If there is a change of circumstances with respect to a Pre-existing 
Individual High Value Account that results in one or more indicia, then the 
Reporting FI must treat the account as a Reportable Account, unless it elects to 
apply one of the exceptions to reporting described in paragraph 5.4.7 & 5.4.8 
with respect to that account. 
5.5.12 
Any Pre-existing Individual Account that has been identified as a 
Reportable Account shall be treated as a Reportable Account in all subsequent 
years, unless the Account Holder ceases to be a Reportable Person. 
Time Lines 
5.5.134 
The time line for reviewing of the pre-existing individual accounts 
have been provided in Rule 114H(3)(d) as under: 
Classification 
Category 
Time limit for 
due diligence 
U.S. reportable 
account 
High value account as on the 
30.6.2014 
U.S. reportable 
account 
31.12.2015 
Lower value account as on the 
30.6.2014 
Other reportable 
account 
30.06.2016 
High value account as on the 
31.12.2015 
Other reportable 
account 
30.12.2016 
Lower value account as on the 
31.12.2015 
30.06.2017 
In case of a U.S. reportable account which is high value account as on the 
30.6.2014, due diligence shall be completed by the 31.12.2015 and if based on 
this review such account is identified as a U.S. reportable account after 
31.12.2014 but before 31.12.2015, the reporting financial institution is not 
required to report information about such account with respect to calendar year 
2014, but shall report information about the account on an annual basis 
thereafter. Such accounts will be reported in statement filed by 31.05.2016 for 
calendar year 2015. 
(Ref: Page 31 of CRS and 110 of Commentary) 
35 | P a g e 
5.6 Due Diligence for Pre-existing Entity Accounts 
Accounts not required to be reported or reviewed 
5.6.1 There are certain categories of pre-existing entity accounts which are not 
required to be reviewed, identified or reported. These have been defined in Rule 
114H(5)(a). These are- 
o In case of US reportable accounts if the aggregate account balance or 
value as on 30.6.2014 does not exceed an amount equivalent to USD 
250,000 or the end of any subsequent calendar year; 
o In case of other reportable accounts if the balance or value as on 
31.12.2015 does not exceed an amount equivalent to USD 250,000 or 
the end of any subsequent calendar year. 
Identification of reportable accounts 
5.6.2  There is two-step process to identify Pre-existing entity reportable 
accounts- 
o First, RFI identifies whether account holder entity is a Reportable 
Person. If so, the account is then a Reportable Account.  
o Second, if account holder entity is Passive NFEs, RFI must identify 
controlling persons and determine whether controlling person are 
Reportable Person(s). If yes, account becomes reportable in respect of 
controlling person. 
For calendar years 2015 and 2016, aggregate payments made accounts held by 
non-participating financial institutions (NPFI) for purposes of FATCA, has to 
be reported and therefore, for 2015 & 2016, these accounts will also be treated 
as reportable accounts and need to be reported as US Reportable accounts.  
Review of entity 
5.6.3 To determine whether the entity is a reportable person, the Reporting 
Financial Institution  need to review information maintained for regulatory or 
customer relationship purposes (including information collected in accordance 
with the rules made under the Prevention of Money-laundering Act, 2002)  to 
determine whether the information indicates that the account holder is a 
reportable person.  
However, the account may not be treated as a “reportable account”, if  
36 | P a g e 
 A self-certification is obtained from the account holder that the account 
holder is not a reportable person, or  
 The financial institution reasonably determines based on information in 
its possession or that is publicly available, that the account holder is not a 
reportable person.  
5.6.4  If the information indicates that the Account Holder is a Financial 
Institution which is non-USA entity, the RFI must verify the Account Holder’s 
Global Intermediary Identification Number (GIIN) on the published IRS FFI list 
(http://apps.irs.gov/app/fatcaFfiList/flu.jsf). If the GIIN is available then the 
account is not a US reportable account. 
5.6.5 The detailed process of due diligence to establish whether entity is a 
Reportable Person, can be depicted as per following diagram: 
37 | P a g e 
Review for Controlling Person 
5.6.6 Irrespective of the fact that account is identified as a reportable account 
during the first part of review procedure, RFI must carry out the second part of 
the review process to find out 
 Whether the Account Holder is a Passive NFE; 
 Whether any of the Controlling Persons of the Passive NFE is a 
reportable person. 
5.6.7 For determining whether the account holder is a Passive NFE, the RFI 
shall obtain a self-certification from the account holder to establish its status, 
unless it has information in its possession or which is publicly available, based 
on which it can reasonably determine that the account holder is an active NFE 
or a financial institution other than an investment entity referred in sub-clause 
(B) of clause (c) of Explanation to clause (3) of rule 114F. 
5.6.8  
If the account holder is Passive NFE, RFI must identify its 
controlling person. For this, RFI may rely on information collected and 
maintained in accordance with PMLA.  
5.6.9 To determine whether controlling person are reportable or not, RFI may 
rely on information collected and maintained in accordance with PMLA,  where 
the aggregate account balance does not exceed USD 1,000,000.  
If aggregate account balance exceeds USD 1,000,000, self-certification from the 
account holder or such controlling person(s) will be required to determine 
whether controlling person are reportable or not.  RFI must make all efforts to 
collect the self- certification with respect to a Controlling Person of a Passive 
NFE. However, if a self-certification is not obtained with respect to a 
Controlling Person of a Passive NFE, in order to determine whether it is a 
Reportable Person, the RFI must rely on the indicia search described in 
paragraph 5.4.2  that it has in its records for such Controlling Person.  If the RFI 
has none of such indicia in its records, then no further action would be required 
until there is a change in circumstances that results in one or more indicia with 
respect to the Controlling Person being associated with the account. 
5.6.10 If any controlling person of a passive NFE is a resident of any country or 
territory outside India for tax purposes, the account of the passive NFE shall be 
treated as a reportable account to all such country or territory outside India 
which a controlling person is a tax resident of. The details of the controlling 
38 | P a g e 
person(s) will also be reportable to the respective country (ies) or territory (ies) 
outside India. 
5.6.11     
If there is a change of circumstances with respect to a Pre-existing 
Entity Account that causes the Reporting Financial Institution to know, or have 
reason to know, that the self-certification or other documentation associated 
with an account is incorrect or unreliable, the Reporting Financial Institution 
must re-determine the status of the account in accordance with the due diligence 
procedure as soon as possible. This should be done by the later of the last day of 
the relevant calendar year or 90 calendar days following the notice or discovery 
of the change in circumstances. 
Payments to Non-participating Financial Institution 
5.6.12 For the year 2015 & 2016, aggregate payments made to Non-participating 
Financial Institution (NPFI) are required to be reported under FATCA. 
Therefore, if the account holder is a NPFI, the account is a US Reportable 
Account.  
For determining whether account holder is a NPFI, following steps should be 
taken: 
a. If account holder is an Indian FI or other partner jurisdiction FI, RFI may 
verify their GIIN on the published US IRS FFI list. If GIIN is verified, no 
further review or reporting is required. 
b. There may be cases where Indian FI or other partner jurisdiction FI is 
treated by the US IRS as Non-participating Financial Institution. In these 
cases, the account of Indian FI or other partner jurisdiction FI is a 
reportable account. 
c. If the account is held by an FI which is not an Indian FI or other partner 
jurisdiction FI, then the account holder must be treated as NPFI and it is a 
US Reportable Account. However, in the following two situations, 
account is not reportable- 
I. 
II. 
If RFI obtains a self-certification from the account holder that 
account holder is a non-reporting financial institution (NRFI) as 
defined in Rule 114F(5). 
In case of PFFI (defined in Annex II of IGA) or registered deemed 
compliant FFI, RFI verifies the Account holder’s GIIN on 
published US IRS FFI list. 
FFI list of PFFI can be found in the link below: 
http://apps.irs.gov/app/fatcaFfiList/flu.jsf 
39 | P a g e 
The list of partner jurisdiction can be found in the link below: 
http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/tax
policy/treaties/Pages/FATCA-Archive.aspx 
5.6.13 The timeline for due diligence for pre-existing entity accounts are as 
below: 
Category 
Type 
Time limit for 
due diligence 
U.S. reportable 
accounts 
aggregate 
balance exceeding  
USD 250,000 as on 30.6.2014 
Other 
reportable 
accounts 
aggregate balance exceeding 
USD 250,000 as on 31.12.2015 
30.06.2016 
30.12.2016 
(Ref: Page 38 of CRS and 135 of Commentary) 
5.7 Due Diligence for New Individual Accounts 
Accounts not required to be reviewed or reported 
5.7.1 The following new U.S. reportable accounts are not required to reviewed 
or reported as per Rule 114H(4)(a)- 
(a) 
a depository account unless the account balance exceeds an amount 
equal to USD 50,000 at the end of any calendar year; 
(b) 
a cash value insurance contract unless the cash value exceeds an 
amount equal to USD 50,000 at the end of any calendar year. 
The above exemption is not available for U.S. custodial or investment accounts 
and thus the same need to be reviewed even if the account balance is less than 
USD50,000. Further, there is no threshold in case of other reportable accounts 
and thus any individual account opened from 01.01.2016 has to be reviewed to 
ascertain whether it is a reportable account. 
Self-certification 
5.7.2 In the case of new US reportable accounts, which do not fall under (a) & 
(b) of paragraph 5.7.1 above, self-certification shall be obtained on account 
opening or within 90 days form the end of calendar year in which account 
ceases to be covered under clause (a) & (b) of paragraph 5.7.1, to determine the 
account holder’s residence or residences for tax purposes. 
40 | P a g e 
In case of new other reportable accounts, on account opening, the Reporting 
Financial Institution must obtain a self-certification from customer, as part of 
the account opening documentation, to determine the account holder’s residence 
or residences for tax purposes.  
5.7.3 The self-certification will specify where the individual is resident for tax 
purposes. If the self-certification establishes that the Account Holder is resident 
for tax purposes in a country/territory outside India, then, the Reporting 
Financial Institution must treat the account as a Reportable Account and the 
self-certification shall also include the account holder’s taxpayer identification 
number with respect to such country or territory outside India and date of birth.  
5.7.4 The self-certification can be provided in any form but in order for it to 
be valid, it must be signed (or otherwise positively affirmed) by the Account 
Holder, be dated, and must include the Account Holder’s: name; residence 
address; jurisdiction(s) of residence for tax purposes; TIN(s) and date of birth. A 
draft of the self-certification is at Appendix D. 
5.7.5 The Reporting Financial Institution must also confirm the reasonableness 
of such self-certification based on the information obtained by it in connection 
with the opening of the account, including any documentation collected in 
accordance with Prevention of Money Laundering (Maintenance of Records) 
Rules, 2005.  
5.7.6 Where a self-certification has been obtained for a new individual account 
and if there is a change of circumstances with respect to such account which 
causes the reporting financial institution to know, or have reason to know, that 
the said self-certification is incorrect or unreliable, the reporting financial 
institution shall not rely on the said self-certification and shall obtain a valid 
self-certification that establishes the residence or residences for tax purposes of 
the account holder. If the Reporting Financial Institution is unable to obtain a 
valid self-certification, the Reporting Financial Institution shall treat the account 
as a reportable account with respect to each such country or territory outside 
India for which indicia is identified. 
5.7.8 
The due diligence process is depicted on the next page: 
41 | P a g e 
Jan-Dhan Accounts 
5.7.9  As per Rule 115H(4)(b)(i), self-certification in case of US reportable 
account is to be obtained within 90 days after the end of calendar year in which 
account balance exceeds USD 50,000. Thus, for US reportable account, the self
certification requirement will arise only in the year following the calendar year 
in which balance exceeds USD 50,000. It can be said with reasonable certainty 
that balance in Jan-Dhan account may never exceed USD 50,000. However, in a 
very rare case, where it happens, RFI must carry out due diligence as described 
above. Therefore, a Jan-dhan account would normally not be required to be 
reviewed or reported for purposes of FATCA. 
5.8 Due Diligence for New Entity Accounts 
5.8.1 There is no threshold or exemption for new entity accounts and all these 
accounts need to be reviewed and reported.  
42 | P a g e 
5.8.2 As in the case of pre-existing entity accounts, there is two-step process to 
identify New entity reportable accounts  
 First, RFI identifies whether account holder entity is a Reportable 
Person. If so, the account is then a Reportable Account.  
 Second, if account holder entity is Passive NFEs, RFI must identify 
controlling persons and determine whether controlling person are 
Reportable Person(s). If yes, account becomes reportable in respect of 
controlling person. 
For calendar years 2015 and 2016, aggregate payments made accounts held by 
non-participating financial institutions (NPFI) for purposes of FATCA, has to 
be reported and therefore, for 2015 & 2016, these accounts will also be treated 
as reportable accounts and need to be reported as US Reportable accounts.  
Review of entity 
5.8.3 The detailed process of due diligence to establish whether entity is a 
Reportable Person, can be depicted as per the following flow chart: 
43 | P a g e 
5.8.4 The RFI need to determine whether the Entity itself is a reportable 
person, i.e. resident of a country/territory outside India. For this, RFI will obtain 
a self-certification from account holder, as part of the account opening 
documentation, to determine the account holder’s residence or residences for tax 
purposes. The RFI must also confirm the reasonableness of such self
certification based on the information obtained by it in connection with the 
opening of the account, including any documentation collected in accordance 
with PMLA. 
Review of controlling person 
5.8.5 Irrespective of the fact that account is identified as a reportable account 
during the first part of review procedure, RFI must carry out the second part of 
the review process to find out- 
44 | P a g e 
 Whether the Account Holder is a Passive NFFE; 
 Whether any of the Controlling Persons of the Passive NFFE is a 
reportable person.  
5.8.6 For determining whether the account holder is a passive NFE, the RFI 
shall obtain a self-certification from the account holder to establish its status, 
unless it has information in its possession or which is publicly available, based 
on which it can reasonably determine that the account holder is not a passive 
NFE. 
5.8.7 If the account holder is Passive NFE, RFI must identify its controlling 
person. For this, RFI may rely on information collected and maintained in 
accordance with PMLA.  
5.8.8  For purposes of determining whether controlling person is reportable 
person, the RFI may rely on a self-certification from the account holder or 
controlling person. 
5.8.9 The RFI is also required to determine whether the account holder is a 
non-participating financial institution and those accounts should be treated as 
US reportable accounts to be reported to USA for calendar years 2015 and 
2016.  
(Ref: Page 40 of CRS and 143 of Commentary) 
5.9 Alternate Procedure in case of US Reportable Accounts 
5.9.1 In the case of US Reportable Accounts, the due diligence procedure for 
new accounts, including obtaining a self-certification from the account holder, 
would apply from 1st July, 2014. However, the legal basis for having this due 
diligence procedure for new accounts was introduced only on 7th August, 2015, 
on Notification of Rules 114F to 114H, the IGA between India and USA 
provides for an alternative procedures for applying the due diligence procedure 
which has been included in Rule 114H(8) of the Rules.  
5.9.2 As provided in Proviso to Rule 114H(8), all the new entity accounts 
which are U.S. reportable accounts opened from 1st July, 2014 to 31st December, 
2014, may be treated by the RFI as pre-existing entity account and apply the due 
diligence procedure related to pre-existing accounts without regard to account 
balance or value threshold.  
5.9.3 Further, as provided in Rule 114H(8), for all the individual and entity 
accounts opened from 1st July, 2014 to the date of entry in to force of the IGA 
45 | P a g e 
between India and USA, i.e., 31st August, 2015, the RFI will need to obtain the 
self-certification and carry out due diligence procedure to determine the 
reasonableness of the self-certification. The RFIs will need to obtain the self
certification and documentation within one year of the entry into force of the 
IGA, i.e., by 31st August, 2016, or otherwise close the accounts and report their 
information as “reportable accounts”.  
5.9.4 The RFIs will need to report on any new account so identified, including 
accounts held by non-participating financial institution, by the later of 31st of 
May following the year on which the account is identified or within 45 days of 
identification of account. Thus, all accounts identified during the calendar year 
2015 should be reported by 31st May, 2016.  
5.9.5 The information required to be reported with respect to such a new 
account shall be information which would have been reportable had the new 
account been identified as a U.S. reportable account or as an account held by a 
non-participating financial institution, as applicable, as of the date the account 
was opened. Thus for accounts opened during calendar year 2014, the 
information about calendar year 2014 must be reported even if the reporting is 
done in 2017 as the alternate procedure was completed during the calendar year 
2016.   
5.9.6 Rule 114H(4)(a) states that the depository accounts having a balance not 
exceeding USD 50,000 or cash value insurance contracts having cash value not 
exceeding USD 50,000 at the end of any calendar year are not required to be 
reviewed or reported in case of U.S. reportable accounts. Accordingly, in these 
cases, for the accounts opened from 1.7.2014 to 31.12.2014, a value search 
should be carried out as on 31.12.2014 and for accounts opened between 
1.1.2015 to 31.8.2015, a value search should be carried out as on 31.12.2015. 
The due diligence for new accounts including obtaining of self-certification 
needs to be carried out only in those cases where the value exceeds USD 
50,000. In case of accounts other than depository or cash value accounts, the 
financial institutions should make reasonable efforts to obtain the self
certification, particularly in those cases where after indicia search a positive 
match is found with any of the U.S. indicia. If a self-certification is not provided 
by an account holder or the reasonableness of a self-certification cannot be 
confirmed, the account is reportable. 
5.9.7 For new individual accounts (depository or cash value contract) accounts 
opened after 1.9.2015, the alternate procedure will not be applicable and the due 
diligence procedure as applicable to “new accounts” including obtaining and 
verification of self-certification will be applicable. In case of accounts which are 
not required to reviewed or reported as per Rule 114H(4)(a),  a value search 
46 | P a g e 
should be carried out as on 31.12.2015, the due diligence for new accounts 
including obtaining of self-certification needs to be carried out only in those 
cases where the value exceeds USD50,000. Such due diligence needs to be 
completed within a period of 90 days from the end of calendar year 2015, i.e, by 
31.03.2016. In case of other than depository or cash value contract accounts, the 
financial institutions should make reasonable efforts to obtain the self
certification by 31.12.2015, particularly in those cases where after indicia search 
a positive match is found with any of the U.S. indicia. If a self-certification is 
not provided by an account holder or the reasonableness of a self-certification 
cannot be confirmed, the account is reportable. 
5.9.8 For a depository entity account opened between 01.01.2015 to 
31.08.2015, a value search should be carried out as on 31.12.2015 and due 
diligence as applicable to new accounts including obtaining of self-certification 
needs to be carried out only in those cases where the value exceeds USD 
250,000. Similarly, for a depository entity account opened after 01.09.2015, a 
value search should be carried out as on 31.12.2015 and due diligence as 
applicable to new accounts including obtaining of self-certification needs to be 
carried out only in those cases where the value exceeds USD 250,000.  
5.10 Aggregation 
For purposes of determining the aggregate balance or value of financial 
accounts held by an individual or entity, a reporting financial institution shall be 
required to take into account all financial accounts which are maintained by it, 
or by a related entity, but only to the extent that the computerised systems of 
that reporting financial institution links the financial accounts by reference to a 
data element such as client number or taxpayer identification number, and 
allows account balances or values to be aggregated. [Rule 114H(7)(c)] 
For the purpose of determining the aggregate balance or value of financial 
accounts held by a person to determine whether a financial account is a high 
value account, a Reporting FI shall also be required, in the case of any financial 
accounts that a relationship manager knows, or has reason to know, are directly 
or indirectly owned, controlled, or established (other than in a fiduciary 
capacity) by the same person, to aggregate all such accounts. 
Exempt products  
If a financial account is exempt from being treated as a financial account, it 
should not be included for the purposes of aggregation. Consequently, if an 
individual holds a personal retirement account as well as several depository 
47 | P a g e 
accounts with the same financial institution and its information technology 
systems allow all these holdings to be linked, the depository accounts are 
aggregated, but the personal retirement account is not. 
5.11 Joint Account  
Where a Financial Account is jointly held, the balance or value to be reported in 
respect of the Reportable Person is the entire balance or value of the account. 
The entire balance or value should be attributed to each holder of the account. 
The same principle is also applicable to following situations also: 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
an account held by a Passive NFE with more than one Controlling 
Person that is a Reportable Person;  
an account held by an Account Holder that is a Reportable Person (on 
an NFE with a Reportable Controlling Person) and is identified as 
having more than one jurisdiction of residence; and   
an account held by a Passive NFE that is a Reportable Person with a 
Controlling Person that is a Reportable Person. 
For example where a jointly held account has a balance or value of $75,000 
and account is other Reportable account, then the amount to be attributed to 
each of the account holder would be $70,000.  
However, it may be noted that accounts may be aggregated to determine 
the threshold but for reporting purpose, all accounts should be reported 
separately in Form 61B. 
5.12  Related Entity 
Related entity is defined in Explanation (E) to 114F(6). An entity is a “related 
entity” of another entity if either entity controls the other entity, or the two 
entities are under common control.  
Following are the examples of Aggregation for US Reportable Account. Unless 
specified otherwise, balance is on 30.06.2014. 
Example 1 – Application of the USD 50,000 threshold  
Individual X is having following two financial accounts with Bank A in India, 
with balance as on 30.06.2014: 
 a fixed deposit account with a balance of USD 48,000  
48 | P a g e 
 a savings account with a balance of USD 8,000 
Bank A can link and aggregate the following accounts by a Unique 
Identification Number of account holder. 
The aggregation rules will apply for the purposes of determining whether the 
balance of each pre-existing individual account exceeds USD 50,000. Since the 
aggregated balance of the two accounts is USD 56,000, both the account would 
be reportable. 
Example 2 – Application of the USD 50,000 threshold 
The same facts as Example 1, except the accounts of the account holder are:  
 a depository account with a balance of USD 23,000  
 a custodial account with a balance of USD 15,000  
The aggregated total is below USD 50,000. Both accounts can benefit from the 
exemption provided by the threshold.  
Example 3 – Application of the USD 50,000 threshold  
The same facts as Example 1, except the accounts of the account holder are:  
 a depository account with a balance of USD 35,000  
 a custodial account with a balance of USD 18,000  
The aggregation rules will apply for the purposes of determining whether a 
balance or value of a pre-existing individual account exceeds USD 50,000. 
Since the aggregated balance of the two accounts is USD 53,000, the accounts 
are potentially reportable. However, a depository account with a balance of 
USD 50,000 or less is exempt from reporting. No similar exemption is available 
to other types of financial accounts. Therefore, the depository account is not 
reportable, but the custodial account must be reviewed using the relevant due 
diligence procedures.  
Example 4 – Application of the USD 250,000 cash value insurance contract 
threshold 
Company B is an Indian financial institution. It can link and aggregate the 
following accounts of an account holder by a Customer ID number,  
 a cash value insurance contract with a value of USD 245,000 as on 
30.06.2014; 
 a custodial account with a balance of USD 35,000 as on 30.06.2014. 
49 | P a g e 
The aggregated balance or value indicates the financial accounts are potentially 
reportable. However, for the purposes of determining whether the cash value 
insurance contract is reportable, it needs only to be aggregated with other cash 
value insurance contracts or annuity contracts. Therefore, it remains below the 
USD 250,000 threshold and does not have to be reviewed. The custodial 
account must be reviewed to determine if the account holder is a specified US 
person because there is no exemption for the custodial account. 
Example 5 – Aggregation involving joint accounts  
Two account holders have three depository accounts between them. Each has a 
deposit account and they share a joint deposit account. The accounts are 
maintained by the same financial institution and have the following balances:  
 Client A - USD 37,000  
 Client B - USD 25,000  
 Joint account - USD 20,000  
A data element in the financial institution’s computer system allows the joint 
account to be associated with both Client A and Client B. The system shows the 
individual balances of the accounts and permits the balances to be electronically 
aggregated. 
The balance of the joint account is attributable in full to each of the account 
holders. The aggregate balance for Client A is USD 57,000 and for Client B is 
USD 45,000.  
Since the amounts after aggregation exceed the thresholds of USD 50,000 with 
respect to Client A, Client A’s account must be reviewed to determine if he or 
she is a US person. And, since the aggregated amount is below those thresholds 
with respect to Client B, there is no requirement to review Client B.  
Example 6 – Aggregation of negative balances  
Two account holders have three depository accounts between them. Each has a 
deposit account and they share a joint deposit account. The accounts are 
maintained by the same financial institution and have the following balances:  
 Client A USD 59,000  
 Client B USD 39,000  
 Joint account (USD 8,000)  
The accounts can be linked and therefore must be aggregated. But, for the 
purposes of aggregation, the negative balance of the joint account is treated as 
nil. In this example, after applying the threshold of USD 50,000, Client A’s 
account has to be reviewed but Client B’s need not be reviewed. 
50 | P a g e 
Example 7 – Separate account reporting  
Person Y holds three depository accounts with Bank Z. The balances are as 
follows:  
 Account 1 - USD 35,000  
 Account 2 - USD 2,000  
 Account 3 - USD 26,000  
The aggregated balance totals USD 63,000, causing all three accounts to be 
reviewed. The review determines that Person Y is a specified US person. 
Therefore, all three accounts are reportable. Bank Z must report each account 
individually and not consolidate the information into a single information return 
for reporting purposes. 
Aggregation of pre-existing entity accounts 
For purposes of determining the aggregate balance or value of accounts held by 
an entity, all accounts held by the entity will need to be aggregated when the 
financial institution applies the thresholds and the financial institution’s 
computerized system can link the accounts by reference to a common data 
element and allow the account balances to be aggregated.  
Example 8 – Aggregation of pre-existing entity accounts 
Entity Y has two depository accounts with Bank X. The balances are as follows:  
 Current account USD 165,000  
 Term Deposit account USD 110,000 
Bank X applies the relevant thresholds and its computer system allows the 
account balances to be aggregated. The accounts must be reviewed since the 
aggregated balance exceeds the applicable threshold of USD 250,000 for an 
entity. The review determines that Entity Y is a specified U.S. person. The 
accounts are reportable.  
Example 9 – Aggregation of pre-existing entity accounts  
Individual P has a depository account with Bank X. Individual A also controls 
100% of Entity Y and 50% of Entity Z, both of which also have a depository 
account with Bank X. None of the accounts are managed by a relationship 
manager. The balances are as follows:  
 Individual P depository account USD 35,000  
 Entity Y depository account USD 120,000  
 Entity Z depository account USD 115,000  
51 | P a g e 
Entity Z’s account has never exceeded USD 1,000,000. Bank X applies the 
relevant thresholds and its computer system allows the account balances to be 
aggregated.  
Where there is no relationship manager, an account held by a person can only be 
aggregated with other accounts held by that person. In this example, no account 
is reportable since the aggregation rules do not apply to cause any account to 
exceed the relevant thresholds that trigger review. 
Example 10 – Aggregation of preexisting entity accounts  
Individual A has a custodial account with Bank X. Individual A also controls 
100% of Entity Y and 50% of Entity Z. Entity Y holds a custodial account and 
Entity Z holds a depository account, (both accounts are with Bank X). A 
relationship manager is assigned to Individual A. The balances are as follows:  
 Individual A custodial account USD 35,000  
 Entity Y custodial account USD 1,180,000  
 Entity Z depository account USD 110,000  
Entity Z’s depository account has never exceeded USD1,000,000. Bank X must 
make enquiry of the relationship manager assigned to Individual A to establish 
whether the manager knows of any accounts that are directly or indirectly 
owned, controlled or established (other than in a fiduciary capacity) by 
Individual A. The relationship manager knows Individual A is the controlling 
person of Entity Y and Entity Z and, therefore, is required to aggregate the three 
accounts.  
Since the aggregated balance of Individual A’s account exceeds USD 
1,000,000, Individual A’s account is a high value account subject to the 
enhanced review procedures. The value of Entity Y’s account exceeds the USD 
250,000 threshold and must be reviewed whereas Entity Z’s account is not 
required to be reviewed as its balance does not exceed that threshold. 
5.12  New Fixed Deposit account as Preexisting Account 
In banking system, there are procedures where Fixed Deposit (FD) can be 
opened by an existing customer who is having an existing saving bank account 
with the same financial institution, without any additional documentation. These 
fixed deposits are assigned separate account numbers from the existing saving 
bank account. Therefore, they are classified as new accounts by the banks. In 
such cases, no additional documentation are obtained for these fixed deposits 
52 | P a g e 
accounts  as they are  intrinsically related to existing saving bank account and 
all KYC documents are available for the existing saving bank account. 
In these cases, where no additional documentation are required for certain FD 
accounts, financial institution may treat the new FD account as pre-existing 
account subject to the following conditions:  
a.  
the saving bank account is opened on or before 30.06.2014 in the 
case of FATCA  and 31.12.2015 in the case of CRS ; 
b. 
the due diligence requirements have already been carried out or are 
in the process of being carried out for the preexisting saving bank account 
and 
c.  
the accounts are treated as linked or as a single account or 
obligation for the purposes of applying any of the due diligence 
requirements and reporting. 
The above situation will also be applicable to Auto sweep facility linked to 
existing saving bank account.  
5.14       
Global Custodian and Local Custodian 
Generally, accounts opened in India by foreign investors, including Foreign 
Portfolio Investor (FPl), are contracted through Global Custodians (GCs) who in 
turn appoint or contract with Local Sub Custodians in India to facilitate 
registration and investments of these foreign investors in India.  
In such cases, Local Sub-custodian are required to carry out the due diligence 
on the accounts held by GC end-clients. However, for carrying out due 
diligence, the Local Sub-custodian may rely on the KYC/FATCA/CRS 
documentation done by GC for the account holders including the self
certification. Further, it is clarified that the obligations for due diligence and 
reporting remain that of the Local Custodian who should also be able to access 
all documents in relation to an account holder.  
5.15  Obtaining Self-Certification 
Financial institutions can obtain self-certification from the account holder either 
in physical form or in electronic form. In case of electronic form, self
certification should be obtained through Internet Banking platform from the 
user account where the customer has transaction rights.  
53 | P a g e 
5.16 Change in circumstances 
If there is a change of circumstances with respect to an account that causes the 
RFI to know, or have reason to know, that the self-certification or any other 
documentation associated with an account is incorrect or unreliable, the 
Reporting Financial Institution must re-determine the status of the account in 
accordance with the applicable due diligence procedure immediately. This 
implies that it should be done by the later of the last day of the relevant calendar 
year or 90 calendar days following the notice or discovery of the change in 
circumstances. 
A “change in circumstances” includes any change that results in the addition of 
information relevant to a person’s status or otherwise conflicts with such 
person’s status. In addition, a change in circumstances includes any change or 
addition of information to the account holder’s account (including the addition, 
substitution, or other change of an account holder) or any change or addition of 
information to any account associated with such account (applying the account 
aggregation rules) if such change or addition of information affects the status of 
the account holder. 
5.17  Documentary Evidence 
For the purpose of due diligence procedures, “documentary evidence” includes 
any of the following, namely:- 
(i)  a certificate of residence issued by an authorised Government body, 
including a Government agency or a municipality, of the country or 
territory in which the payee claims to be a resident; 
(ii) with respect to an individual, any valid identification issued by an 
authorized Government body, including a Government agency or a 
municipality, that includes the individual’s name and is particularly used 
for identification purposes; 
(iii) with respect to an entity, any official documentation issued by an 
authorized Government body, including a Government agency or a 
municipality, which includes the name of the entity and either the address 
of its principal office in the country or territory in which it claims to be a 
resident or the country or territory in which the entity was incorporated or 
organized ; and 
54 | P a g e 
(iv) any financial statement, third-party credit report, bankruptcy filing, or a 
report of the Government agency regulating the securities market. Any 
such financial statement should be audited by an appropriate authority. 
5.18  RFI is expected to institute procedures to ensure that any change that 
constitutes a change in circumstances is identified by the RFI. In addition, RFI 
is expected to notify any person providing a self-certification of the person’s 
obligation to notify the RFI of a change in circumstances. RFI must keep 
records of the steps undertaken and any evidence relied upon for the 
performance of the due diligence procedures. RFI must also be able to obtain 
those records when required. RFI should also record the date on which due 
diligence for an account was completed.  
Every RFI has to maintain information in respect of financial accounts in 
accordance with the procedure and manner as specified by its sectoral regulator 
from time to time. In a rare situation, where no such procedure and manner has 
been specified by sectoral regulator, the information in respect of financial 
accounts shall be maintained for at least 6 years as specified under the Income
tax Act, 1961. 
55 | P a g e 
6. 
Reporting Requirements 
6.1 Information to be maintained and reported 
After the RFI has identified the reportable accounts, RFI needs to report specific 
information in respect of each reportable account. As per Rule 114G(1), RFI 
needs to maintain and report the following information in case of each 
Reportable Account:- 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 
the name, address, taxpayer identification number (assigned to the 
account holder by the country or territory of his residence for tax 
purposes) and date and place of birth (in the case of an individual) of 
each reportable person, that is an account holder of the account; 
in the case of any entity which is an account holder and which, after 
application of due diligence procedures prescribed in rule 114H, is 
identified as having one or more controlling persons that is a 
reportable person,- 
(i) the name and address of the entity, taxpayer identification number 
assigned to the entity by the country or territory of its residence; 
and 
(ii) the name, address, date and place of birth of each such controlling 
person and taxpayer identification number assigned to such 
controlling person by the country or territory of his residence; 
the account number (or functional equivalent in the absence of an 
account number); 
the account balance or value (including, in the case of a cash value 
insurance contract or annuity contract, the cash value or surrender 
value) at the end of relevant calendar year or, if the account was 
closed during such year, immediately before closure; 
in the case of any custodial account,- 
i. 
the total gross amount of interest, the total gross amount of 
dividends, and the total gross amount of other income 
generated with respect to the assets held in the account, in 
each case paid or credited to the account (or with respect to 
the account) during the calendar year; and 
ii. 
the total gross proceeds from the sale or redemption of 
financial assets paid or credited to the account during the 
calendar year with respect to which the reporting financial 
institution acted as a custodian, broker, nominee, or 
otherwise as an agent for the account holder; 
in the case of any depository account, the total gross amount of 
interest paid or credited to the account during the relevant calendar 
year; 
56 | P a g e 
(g) 
in the case of any account other than custodial or depository accounts, 
including accounts held by investment entities and cash value 
insurance contract and annuity, the total gross amount paid or credited 
to the account holder with respect to the account during the relevant 
calendar year with respect to which the reporting financial institution 
is the obligor or debtor, including the aggregate amount of any 
redemption payments made to the account holder during the relevant 
calendar year; and 
(h) 
in the case of any account held by a non-participating financial 
institution, for the calendar year 2015 and 2016, the name of each non
participating financial institution to which payments have been made 
and the aggregate amount of payments. 
(Ref: Page 29 of CRS and 94 of Commentary) 
6.2 Account Holder 
Account holder means the person listed or identified as the holder of a financial 
account by the financial institution that maintains the account. However, if a 
person, other than a financial institution, holds a financial account for the 
benefit or on account of some other person as agent, custodian, nominee, 
signatory, investment advisor, or intermediary, such other person will be treated 
as holding the account. 
In the case of a cash value insurance contract or an annuity contract, the account 
holder is any person entitled to receive a payment upon the maturity of the 
contract or any person entitled to access the cash value or change the 
beneficiary of the contract and if no person can access the cash value or change 
the beneficiary, the account holder is any person named as the owner in the 
contract and any person with a vested entitlement to payment under the terms of 
the contract; 
6.3  Tax Identification Number (TIN) 
Definition 
6.3.1  A Taxpayer Identification Number is a unique combination of letters or 
numbers, however described, assigned by a country to an individual or an Entity 
and used to identify the individual or Entity for purposes of administering the 
tax laws of such country. 
Where the person is a resident of more than one country or territory outside 
India under the tax laws of such country or territory, the reporting financial 
institution shall maintain the TIN in respect of each such country or territory. 
57 | P a g e 
For example, if an individual X is tax resident of Belgium and account of such 
person is to be reported by an FI in India, the TIN of Belgium is required to be 
collected and reported by FI in respect of such person. TIN of Belgium is called 
Numéro National (NN). 
In the above example, if X is tax resident of Belgium as well as France, TIN of 
both Belgium and France are required to be collected and reported by FI in 
respect of such person.  
In the same example, it may be the case the X is having PAN. Then also, TIN 
for the purpose of reporting by FI will be Numéro National (NN). 
Functional Equivalent of TIN 
6.3.2 Many countries do not issue TIN to their taxpayers. However, such 
countries issue some other high integrity number with an equivalent level of 
identification (a functional equivalent). Examples of such numbers are- 
 Social Security Number 
 National Insurance Number 
 Citizen Or Personal Identification  Code Or Number 
 Resident Registration Number 
For Entities, a business/ or company registration code/number may be used in 
case where no TIN has been issued to the entity. These numbers are functional 
equivalent of TIN. 
TIN for Preexisting Accounts 
6.3.3 TIN is very essential to correctly identify taxpayers. With respect to each 
reportable account which is a pre-existing account, TIN is not required to be 
reported if it is not in the records of the Reporting Financial Institution. 
However, the RFI shall obtain the TIN with respect to pre-existing accounts by 
the December 31, 2016 and shall report it with respect to calendar year 2017 
and subsequent years. 
“Reasonable efforts” means genuine attempts to acquire the TIN and date of 
birth of the Account Holder of a Reportable Account. Such efforts must be 
made, at least once a year. Examples of reasonable efforts include contacting 
the Account Holder (e.g. by mail, in-person or by phone), including a request 
made as part of other documentation or electronically (e.g. by facsimile or by e
58 | P a g e 
mail); and reviewing electronically searchable information maintained by a 
Related Entity of the Reporting Financial Institution, in accordance with the 
aggregation principles. 
Exceptions 
6.3.4 There are few exceptions to TIN reporting. For example, TIN is not 
required to be reported if, 
 TIN number (including its functional equivalent) is not issued by the 
relevant country or territory outside India in which the person is resident 
for tax purposes or;  
 The domestic law of the relevant country or territory outside India does 
not require the collection of the taxpayer identification number by any 
FI.  
There are some jurisdictions, such as Australia, which issue TINs, but their 
domestic law does not require the collection of the TIN for domestic reporting 
purpose. If a reportable account is maintained by a person resident in such 
jurisdictions, RFI is not required to collect the TIN for those jurisdictions.  
It is also clarified that TIN is not required to be collected by the FIs even from a 
person (resident for tax purposes in a country or territory outside India ) who 
may be eligible to obtain a TIN (or the functional equivalent) in his country or 
territory of residence, but has not yet obtained a TIN. However, in this case, FIs 
may note down this fact and seek TIN from the person after he obtains the 
same. 
AEOI Portal 
6.3.6 To facilitate the implementation of AEOI, OECD has launched AEOI 
portal which contains useful information on AEOI. There is a section on TIN 
where information regarding issuance, collection and, to the extent possible and 
practical, the structure and other specifications of TIN of various countries have 
been complied. It also contains information on which documents, TIN of 
various countries can be found. RFI may go through this section to understand 
the TIN of various countries. The link is 
http://www.oecd.org/tax/automatic-exchange/crs-implementation-and
assistance/tax-identification-numbers/#d.en.347759 
59 | P a g e 
6.4  
Date of Birth 
With respect to each reportable pre-existing account, date of birth is not 
required to be reported if the date of birth is not in the records of the RFI. 
However, the RFI shall obtain the date of birth with respect to pre-existing 
accounts by the December 31, 2016 and shall report it with respect to calendar 
year 2017 and subsequent years. 
The date of birth is reportable for all new accounts. 
6.5 
Place of Birth 
Place of birth is not required to be reported unless it is available in the 
electronically searchable data maintained by the RFI. 
6.6  
Address 
In the case of an account held by an individual that is a reportable person, or 
controlling person, the address to be reported is the current residence address of 
the individual. If RFI does not have such address in its records, then RFI should 
report the mailing address available on file.  
In general, an ‘in-care-of’ address or a post office box is not a residence 
address. A post office box that forms part of an address that also includes details 
such as a street, apartment or suite number or a rural route such that a place of 
residence can be clearly identified can be accepted as a residence address. In 
special circumstances such as that of military personnel an‘in-care-of’ 
address may constitute a residence address. 
In the case of an account held by an Entity that is identified as having one or 
more Controlling Persons that is a reportable person, the address to be reported 
is the address of the Entity and the address of each Controlling Person of such 
Entity that is the reportable person. 
6.7  
Jurisdiction of residence 
After carrying out the due diligence, if an account is identified as reportable 
account, RFI must report the jurisdiction of residence of account holder or 
controlling person, as the case may be.  
If there are more than one jurisdiction of residences, all such residences must be 
reported.  
60 | P a g e 
The jurisdiction of residence identified as a result of due diligence are without 
prejudice to any residence determination made by the RFI for any other tax 
purposes. 
6.8  
Account Number 
The account number to be reported with respect to an account is the identifying 
number assigned by the Reporting Financial Institution to the account.  
If no such number is assigned to the account, RFI must report a functional 
equivalent (i.e. a unique serial number or other number assigned to the Financial 
Account that distinguishes the account from other accounts maintained by such 
financial institution). 
For example, it will be bank account number in case of bank accounts, contract 
or policy number for insurance contracts.  
6.9  
Account balance or value 
The RFI must report the balance or value of the account as of the end of the 
calendar year. 
An account with a balance or value that is negative must be reported as having 
zero account balance or value.  
In the case of Cash Value Insurance or Annuity Contract, the RFI must report 
the Cash Value or surrender value of the account. 
In the case of equity in a Financial Institution, the balance or value of an Equity 
Interest is the value calculated by the Financial Institution for the purpose that 
requires the most frequent determination of value. 
In case of debt interest, the balance or value of a debt interest is its principal 
amount. 
The balance or value of the account is not to be reduced by any liabilities or 
obligations incurred by an account holder with respect to the account or any of 
the assets held in the account. 
The custodial account of a customer maintained with the Depository/ 
Depository Participant/broker contains various kinds of securities. For 
calculating account balance/value, valuation of securities may be done at the 
61 | P a g e 
values regularly communicated by Depository (CDSL/NSDL) to the depository 
participants/brokers.  
Each holder of a jointly held account is attributed the entire balance or value of 
the joint account, as well as the entire amounts paid or credited to the joint 
account. 
For example, there is a joint account held by two individuals (X & Y), having 
balance of USD 75,000. One of the Account Holders X is resident in France. 
The other person Y is resident in India. The amount reportable in respect of 
person X will be USD 75,000. Y is not reportable. 
If both Account Holders in the above example are resident in France, then each 
would be attributed USD 75,000 in the report.  
Closure of accounts 
If the financial account was closed during the reporting period, then account 
balance or value immediately before closure shall be reported.  
In determining when an account is “closed”, reference must be made to 
guidelines/procedures made by the sectoral regulator in this regard.  
For example, an equity or debt interest in a Financial Institution would generally 
be considered to be closed upon termination, transfer, surrender, redemption, 
cancellation, or liquidation.  
An account with a balance or value equal to zero or that is negative will not be a 
closed account solely by reason of such balance or value. 
6.10 Reporting Period 
The information to be reported must be that as of 31st December of every year. 
6.11 Custodial Account 
In case of custodial account, apart from general reporting requirements, the 
following information is to be reported for each reporting period is: 
 The total gross amount of interest paid or credited to the account 
 The total amount of dividends paid or credited to the account,  
62 | P a g e 
 The total gross amount of other income generated with respect to the 
assets held in the account paid or credited to the account,  
 The total gross proceeds from the sale or redemption of Financial Assets 
paid or credited to the account.  
The total gross proceeds from the sale or redemption of a Financial Asset is the 
total amount credited to the account of the person entitled to the payment 
without regard to any sums netted off against the payment to satisfy outstanding 
liabilities. For example, a loan used to fund acquisition of the asset may be 
repaid from the proceeds of sale. This must not be deducted from the amount 
reportable. 
Commissions and fees paid with respect to the sale or redemption of the asset 
may be taken account of in arriving at the gross proceeds of sale.  
Where the Financial Asset that is sold or redeemed is an interest bearing debt 
obligation the gross proceeds should include any interest that has accrued 
between interest payment dates. 
6.12 Interest Paid or credited 
For depository and custodial account, total gross amount of interest paid or 
credited to the account has to be reported. This interest is the actual interest paid 
or credited to the account and will not include accrued interest. 
6.13 Currency 
The value of the account should be reported in the currency in which account is 
denominated.  
Any account maintained in rupees or in any permissible currency (other than the 
United States Dollar) as designated by the Reserve Bank of India shall be 
converted to United States Dollar at the end of the reporting period as per the 
reference rates of the Reserve Bank of India and such converted amount in the 
United States Dollar shall be used for determining the balance or value of a 
financial account. 
In determining whether a preexisting account meets a threshold, the relevant 
date is the spot rate on June 30, 2014 (for US Reportable Account) and as on 31 
December 2105 (for other reportable account). In the case of an insurance 
contract or an annuity contract, spot rate may be taken as on the most recent 
contract anniversary date.  
63 | P a g e 
In determining whether a preexisting account continues to meet a threshold in 
subsequent years or a new account meets or continues to meet a threshold, the 
relevant date is the spot rate on 31st December of relevant calendar year. In the 
case of a closed account, the relevant date is the spot rate on the date the 
account is closed. 
For the reporting in May 2016, all reporting has to be done in INR. For the reporting 
in 2017 and onwards, Form 61B and Schema will be suitably modified to include a 
field for capturing type of currency in which account is denominated.  
6.15 Due date for furnishing the Report 
6.15.1 The information related to calendar year 2014 needs to be reported for 
only US reportable accounts and the statement should be furnished by 31st 
August, 2015, which has been extended to 10th September, 2015, by an order 
issued by CBDT on 25th August, 2015. In this statement, only the information 
referred to in clause (a) to (d) of Para 6.1 needs to be reported.  
6.15.2 The information related to calendar year 2015 also needs to be reported 
for only US reportable accounts and the statement should be furnished by 31st 
May, 2016. In this statement, only the information referred to in clause (a) to 
(d), e(i) and (f) to (h) of Para 6.1 needs to be reported.   
6.15.3 For calendar years 2015 and 2016, in the case of any account held by a 
non-participating financial institution, the name of each non-participating 
financial institutions to whom payments have been made and the aggregate 
amount of such payments need to be reported.  
6.15.4 For calendar years 2016 onwards, all the above information (a) to to (h) 
of Para 6.1 in case of both US and other reportable accounts need to be reported.  
6.15.5 The statement of reportable accounts need to be furnished in respect of 
each account identified by carrying out due diligence procedure and in case 
when no account is identified as reportable account, a Nil statement needs to be 
furnished. A NIL statement can also be furnished if the RFI has not completed 
the due diligence procedures. 
64 | P a g e 
7.     
Issues Related to Trust etc 
7.1 
In the case of trust, two situations may arise 
a. when a trust is itself a Reporting Financial Institution, or 
b. when a trust is a NFE that maintains a Financial Account with a 
Reporting Financial Institution.  
The most likely scenario in which a trust will be a Financial Institution is if it 
falls within the definition of Investment Entity as described in para B of 2.3.3. 
This is the case when a trust has gross income primarily attributable to 
investing, reinvesting, or trading in Financial Assets and is managed by another 
Entity that is a Financial Institution. This would also include trusts that are 
collective investment vehicles or other similar investment vehicle established 
with an investment strategy of investing, reinvesting, or trading in Financial 
Assets. 
If a trust is not a Financial Institution, it will be a non-financial Entity. NFEs are 
either Active NFEs or Passive NFEs depending on their activities.  
7.2 
The treatment of a trust that is a RFI 
7.2.1  The five steps set out in para 1.5 apply to a trust:(i) Reporting Financial 
Institutions (ii) review their Financial Accounts (iii) to identify their Reportable 
Accounts (iv) by applying the due diligence rules and (v) then report the 
relevant information.   
7.2.2 Determining if the trust is a RFI 
If a trust is financial institution resident in India and it is not a Non-Reporting 
Financial Institution (NRFI), then trust will be Reporting Financial Institution. 
A trust could also be a Non-Reporting Financial Institution where the trustee 
itself is a Reporting Financial Institution (RFI), and that trustee undertakes all 
information reporting in respect of all Reportable Accounts of the trust (and all 
such reports are exchanged with the relevant jurisdictions concerned).  
A trust will be considered to be resident where the trustee(s) is resident. If there 
is more than one trustee, the trust will be a Reporting Financial Institution in all 
such countries in which a trustee is resident. 
7.2.3 Identifying the Financial Accounts of a trust  
Where a trust is a RFI, it must identify its Financial Accounts. If the trust is an 
Investment Entity, its Financial Accounts will be debt and Equity Interests in 
the Entity also.  
65 | P a g e 
The Equity Interests are held by any person treated as a settlor or beneficiary of 
all or a portion of the trust, or any other natural person exercising ultimate 
effective control over the trust.   
The reference to any other natural person exercising ultimate effective control 
over the trust, at a minimum, will include the trustee as an Equity Interest 
Holder.  
If a settlor, beneficiary or other person exercising ultimate effective control over 
the trust is itself an Entity, that Entity must be looked through, and the ultimate 
natural controlling person(s) behind that Entity must be treated as the Equity 
interest holder.  The term “Controlling Persons” has already been defined earlier 
in the guidance note.  
7.2.4 Identifying the Reportable Accounts of a trust  
The debt and Equity Interests of the trust are Reportable Accounts if they are 
held by a Reportable Person. 
For example, if a settlor or beneficiary is resident in a country outside India, 
their Equity Interest is a Reportable Account.   
7.2.5  Applying the due diligence rules   
The trust will apply the due diligence rules in order to determine the identity 
and residence of its Account Holders. The due diligence procedure would be 
same as of a preexisting entity account or new entity account, as the case be. 
7.2.6 Reporting the relevant information   
A trust that is a RFI will report the account information and the financial 
activity for the calendar year in respect of each Reportable Account.  
The account information includes the identifying information for each 
Reportable Person (such as name, address, residence, Taxpayer Identification 
Number, date of birth and Account Number), and the identifying information of 
the trust (name and identifying number of the trust). 
It is possible that a trust as FI may not have an account number for each of the 
Equity Interest holders. The trust should in that case use a unique identifying 
number that will enable the trust to identify the subject of the report in the future.  
The financial activity includes the account balance or value, as well as gross 
payments paid or credited during the year.  
66 | P a g e 
The account balance is the value calculated by the Reporting Financial 
Institution (the trust) for the purpose that requires the most frequent 
determination of value.  
For settlors and beneficiaries, for example, this may be the value that is used for 
reporting to the Account Holder on the investment results for a given period. If 
the Financial Institution has not otherwise recalculated the balance or value for 
other reasons, the account balance for settlors and beneficiaries may be the 
value of the interest upon acquisition or the total value of all trust property.  
The financial information to be reported will depend on the nature of the interest 
held by each Account Holder. Where the trust does not otherwise calculate the 
account value held by each Account Holder, or does not report the acquisition 
value, the account balance or value to be reported is as shown in the following 
Table . Note that where a settlor or beneficiary is an Entity, the Account Holder 
will be the Controlling Persons of that Entity.  
The financial activity to be reported where a trust is a Financial Institution 
that does not otherwise calculate the account value  
Account 
Holder 
Account Balance or 
Value 
Gross payments 
Settlor 
Total value of all trust 
property  
Value of payments made to 
the settlor in reporting period 
(if any) 
Beneficiary 
Total value of all trust 
property  
Value of distributions made to 
the beneficiary in reporting 
period 
Any other 
person 
exercising 
ultimate 
effective control 
Total value of all trust 
property 
Value of distributions made to 
such person in reporting 
period (if any) 
Debt interest 
holder 
Principal amount of the 
debt 
Value of payments made in 
reporting period 
Any of the 
above, if 
account was 
closed 
The fact of closure and account balance immediately 
before closure 
7.3 
The treatment of a trust that is a NFE  
7.3.1 In the second situation, the trust is a NFE and holds a financial account 
with a RFI. 
67 | P a g e 
The same five steps will apply: (i) Reporting Financial Institutions (ii) review 
their Financial Accounts (iii) to identify their Reportable Accounts (iv) by 
applying the due diligence rules and (v) then report the relevant information.  
Assuming here that the first two steps are met (a trust has a Financial Account 
with a Reporting Financial Institution). Now remaining three steps would be 
applied.  
7.3.2 Identifying whether the account held by the trust is a Reportable 
Account   
The account held by a trust that is a Passive NFE is a Reportable Account if:  
a) the trust is a Reportable Person; or  
b) the trust has one or more Controlling Persons that are Reportable Persons.  
The trust will be a Reportable Person only if it is resident for tax purposes in a 
country outside India. 
The account held by a trust will also be reportable if it the trusts has one or more 
Controlling Persons that are Reportable Persons.  
As such, the Controlling Persons of a trust are the settlor(s), trustee(s), 
beneficiary/ies, protector(s) and any other natural person exercising ultimate 
effective control over the trust. This definition of Controlling Person excludes 
the need to inquire as to whether any of these persons can exercise practical 
control over the trust. 
If the settlor or beneficiaries are themselves Entities, the Reporting Financial 
Institution must identify the natural person(s) exercising control of that Entity. 
Although the natural person may be exercising ultimate control through a chain 
of ownership, only the ultimate natural controlling person(s) would be treated as 
a Controlling Person, and not the intermediary Entities in the chain of 
ownership.  
7.3.3  Applying the due diligence rules   
The Reporting Financial Institution must apply the due diligence rules as 
described for preexisting entity account or new entity account. 
7.3.4 Reporting the relevant information   
Where a trust is a Reportable Person, the Reporting Financial Institution will 
report the account information and the financial activity for the year with 
respect to the account of the trust. The account information includes the 
68 | P a g e 
identifying information for each Reportable Person (such as name, address, 
residence, Taxpayer Identification Number, date of birth and account number), 
and the identifying information of the Reporting Financial Institution (name and 
identifying number). 
In respect of a trust that is a Passive NFE, the Reporting Financial Institution 
must report the Controlling Persons of the trust, if they are reportable persons.  
The financial information to be reported will be the account balance or value of 
the account held by the trust and payments made or credited to such account. 
Each Controlling Person is attributed the entire value of the account, as well as 
the entire amounts paid or credited to the account, as shown below in the 
following Table: 
The financial activity to be reported where a trust is a Passive NFE  
Account 
Holder 
Account Balance or Value 
Gross payments 
Settlor:  
Total account balance or 
value 
Gross payments made or credited  
Trustee  
Total account balance or 
value 
Gross payments made or credited  
Beneficiary: 
mandatory 
Total account balance or 
value 
Gross payments made or credited  
Protector (if 
any) 
Total account balance or 
value 
Gross payments made or credited  
Any of the 
above, if 
account was 
closed 
The fact of closure  and account balance immediately before 
closure 
7.4 
Treatment of partnership 
Like in the case of trust, two situations may arise in case of  Partnership  
a. when a Partnership is itself a Reporting Financial Institution, or 
b. when a Partnership is a NFE that maintains a Financial Account 
with a Reporting Financial Institution.  
The same procedure may be followed as in the case of trust. The controlling 
person will be different for partnership and has already been defined in the 
guidance note. 
69 | P a g e 
8. Procedure for Furnishing the Report 
8.1 
As per Rule 114G(9), the statement in respect of each reportable account 
needs to be filed by the RFIs to the Director of Income-tax (Intelligence and 
Criminal Investigation) or Joint Director of Income-tax (Intelligence and 
Criminal Investigation) through online transmission of electronic data to a 
server designated for this purpose under digital signature in accordance with the 
data structure specified by the Principal Director General of Income Tax 
(Systems).   
8.2 
The Principal Director General of Income Tax (Systems) through 
Notification No. 4/2015 dated 06th April, 2016 (at Appendix F) has specified 
the procedures and data structure and standards for ensuring secure capture and 
transmission of data, which are  summarized below: 
a) Generation of ITDREIN: The reporting financial institution is 
required to get registered with the Income Tax Department by logging 
in to the e-filing website (http://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/) with the 
log in ID used for the purpose of filing the Income Tax Return of the 
reporting financial institution. A link to register reporting financial 
institution has been provided under “My Account>Manage ITDREIN”. 
The reporting financial institution is required to apply for different 
ITDREIN for different reporting entity categories. Once ITDREIN is 
generated, the reporting entity will receive a confirmation e-mail on the 
registered e-mail ID and SMS at registered mobile number. There will 
be no option to de-activate ITDREIN, once ITDREIN is created. 
b) Submission of details of reporting entity: After generation of 
ITDREIN, the reporting financial institution will be required to submit 
details of the reporting entity on the screen. Once registered, the 
reporting entity will have an option to edit the details. 
c) Registration of designated director and principal officer: After 
submission of reporting entity details, the reporting financial institution 
will be required to submit the details of designated director and 
principal officer. The designated director and principal officer will 
receive a confirmation e-mail with an activation link. An SMS along 
with OTP (One time Password) will also be sent to the registered 
Mobile Number. For completion of registration, the designated director 
and principal officer should click on the Activation link, enter the 
Mobile PIN(OTP), Password and Confirm Password and click on 
Activate Button. On success, the registration will be complete. 
70 | P a g e 
d) Submission of Form 61B: Every reporting financial institution is 
required to submit the Statement of Reportable Account in Form 61B or 
submit Nil statement. The prescribed schema for Form 61B and a utility 
to prepare XML file can be downloaded from the e-filing website home 
page under forms (other than ITR) tab. The designated director is 
required to login to the e-filing website with the ITDREIN, PAN (of the 
designated director) and password The form is required to be submitted 
using a Digital Signature Certificate of the designated director.  
e) Submission of Nil statement: In case nil statement is to be submitted, 
the option to submit Nil statement is required to be selected. The 
designated director will then be required to submit a declaration with 
respect to pre-existing accounts (As defined in Rule 114H(2)(h) of 
Income Tax Rules, 1962) and new accounts (As defined in Rule 
114H(2)(d) of Income Tax Rules, 1962). The declaration is required to 
be submitted using a Digital Signature Certificate.  
8.3 
A “User Manual for Registration, upload and view of Form 61B” is 
available on the official website http://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in at the following 
link : 
http://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/eFiling/Portal/StaticPDF/Registration_Uploa
d_Form61Form61B_Form15CC.pdf?0.5597204761148895 
8.4  
Further, an easy “Form 61B- Steps to Upload” is available at Appendix  
G. It can also be downloaded from the following link: 
http://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/eFiling/Portal/StaticPDF/Step_to_Upload_F
orm_61B.pdf?0.20263939554499233  
71 | P a g e 
9. 
Monitoring and Compliance 
9.1 By Income Tax Department 
As provided in Rule 114G(9), the statement needs to be furnished to the 
Directorate of Intelligance and Criminal Investigation and the said Directorate 
has been given the responsibility of ensuring the compliance. The penalty 
provisions provided in the Income-tax Act, 1961, are as under: 
(a) Section 271FA of the Income-tax Act, 1961 
(i) For failure to furnish the statement of reportable account within the 
prescribed time limit – Rs. 100 for each day of failure 
(ii) For failure to furnish the statement of reportable account after a 
notice is served on him requiring to file the statement – Rs. 500 for 
each day of failure 
(b) Section 271FAA of the Income-tax Act, 1961 provides for levy of a 
penalty of Rs. 50,000 on RFI for furnishing inaccurate information in the 
statement of reportable account and where 
(i) Inaccuracy is due to failure to comply with due diligence 
requirements or is deliberate on the part of the RFI 
(ii) The RFI knows of the inaccuracy at the time of furnishing the 
statement of reportable account, but does not inform the 
Directorate of Intelligence and Criminal Investigation 
(iii) 
The RFI discovers the inaccuracy after the statement of 
reportable account is furnished and fails to inform and furnish the 
correct information to the Directorate of Intelligence and Criminal 
Investigation within 10 days. 
9.2 By Regulators 
Most of the RFIs are regulated by a regulator which has been vested with the 
power to license, authorize, register, regulate or supervise their activities. Rule 
114G(11) requires the regulators to issue necessary instructions and guidelines 
from time to time for 
(a) Incorporating the requirements of reporting and due diligence  
(b) Providing the procedure and manner of maintaining the information by 
the reporting financial institution 
(c) Ensuring the availability of the information with the RFIs for meeting 
their reporting obligation, if such information is not maintained by it 
under any rule or regulation issued by the regulator 
72 | P a g e 
9.3 Requirement of obtaining GIIN 
The RFIs having U.S. Reportable Accounts need to register with the US IRS 
and obtain Global Intermediary Identification Number by registering at 
http://www.irs.gov/Businesses/Corporations/FATCA-Foreign-Financial
Institution-Registration-Tool. GIIN also needs to be obtained by the Financial 
Institutions claiming exemption as Non-reporting Financial Institution on the 
grounds of being a “financial account with a local client base” since they need 
to report the financial accounts held by a specified U.S. person.   
73 | P a g e 
10. Contact details for further clarification 
For further clarifications and suggestions/feedback for the updated version of 
the Guidance Note, the following officers may be contacted 
(a) For General Queries 
Ms. Pragya Saksena, Joint Secretary(FT&TR-I), pragya.saksena@nic.in 
Mr. Navneet Manohar, Director (FT&TR-III), navneet.manohar@nic.in 
Mr. Gaurav Sharma, Under Secretray[FT&TR-III(1)],  s.gaurav@nic.in 
(b) For Systems related Queries 
Mr. Sanjeev Singh, ADG (Systems-II), sanjeev.singh@gov.in 
(c) For Compliance related queries 
Mr. Raman Chopra, DIT(I&CI), raman.chopra@nic.in
74 | P a g e 
 
75 | Page 
 
Annexure A: Jurisdictions committed to implement AEOI in 
accordance with CRS and signatories of MCAA 
 
S.No. Country  Name MCAA Signed 
(As on 
30.11.2016) 
AEOI year 
1.  Anguilla Yes 2017 
2.  Argentina Yes  2017 
3.  Barbados Yes 2017 
4.  Belgium Yes  2017 
5.  Bermuda Yes 2017 
6.  British Virgin Islands  Yes 2017 
7.  Bulgaria Yes  2017 
8.  Cayman Islands  Yes 2017 
9.  Colombia  Yes  2017 
10.  Crotia Yes 2017 
11.  Curacao Yes  2017 
12.  Cyprus Yes 2017 
13.  Czech Republic Yes  2017 
14.  Denmark Yes 2017 
15.  Estonia Yes 2017 
16.  Faroe Islands Yes  2017 
17.  Finland Yes 2017 
18.  France Yes  2017 
19.  Germany Yes 2017 
20.  Gibraltar Yes 2017 
21.  Greece Yes  2017 
22.  Greenland Yes 2017 
23.  Guernsey Yes  2017 
24.  Hungary Yes 2017 
25.  Iceland Yes 2017 
26.  India  Yes  2017 
27.  Ireland Yes 2017 
28.  Isle of man Yes  2017 
29.  Italy Yes 2017 
30.  Jersey Yes 2017 
31.  Korea Yes  2017 
32.  Lativa  Yes 2017 
33.  Liechtenstein Yes  2017 
34.  Lithuania Yes 2017 
35.  Luxembourg Yes 2017 
 
76 | Page 
 
36.  Malta Yes  2017 
37.  Mexico Yes 2017 
38.  Montserrat Yes  2017 
39.  Netherlands Yes 2017 
40.  Niue Yes 2017 
41.  Norway Yes  2017 
42.  Poland Yes 2017 
43.  Portugal Yes  2017 
44.  Romania Yes 2017 
45.  San Marino Yes 2017 
46.  Seychelles Yes  2017 
47.  Slovak Republic Yes 2017 
48.  Slovenia Yes  2017 
49.  South Africa Yes 2017 
50.  Spain Yes 2017 
51.  Sweden Yes 2017 
52.  Trinidad and Tabago No 2017 
53.  Turks and Caicos Islands Yes  2017 
54.  United Kingdom Yes 2017 
55.  Albania Yes 2018 
56.  Andorra  Yes 2018 
57.  Antigua and Barbuda  Yes  2018 
58.  Aruba Yes 2018 
59.  Australia Yes 2018 
60.  Austria Yes 2018 
61.  The Bahamas No 2018 
62.   Bahrain No 2018 
63.  Belize Yes 2018 
64.  Brazil Yes 2018 
65.  Brunei Darussalam No 2018 
66.  Canada Yes 2018 
67.  Chile  Yes  2018 
68.  China Yes 2018 
69.  Cook Islands Yes  2018 
70.  Costa Rica Yes 2018 
71.  Dominica No 2018 
72.  Ghana Yes  2018 
73.  Grenada Yes 2018 
74.  Hong Kong (China) No 2018 
75.  Indonesia Yes  2018 
76.  Israel  Yes 2018 
77.  Japan Yes  2018 
 
77 | Page 
 
78.  Kuwait Yes 2018 
79.  Lebanon No 2018 
80.  Marshall Islands  Yes 2018 
81.  Macao (china) No 2018 
82.  Malaysia Yes 2018 
83.  Mauritius Yes 2018 
84.  Monaco Yes  2018 
85.  Nauru Yes 2018 
86.  New Zealand Yes  2018 
87.  Panama No 2018 
88.  Qatar No 2018 
89.  Russian Federation Yes 2018 
90.  Saint Kitts and Nevis Yes  2018 
91.  Samoa Yes 2018 
92.  Saint Lucia  Yes  2018 
93.  Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines  Yes  2018 
94.  Saudi Arabia Yes 2018 
95.  Singapore  No 2018 
96.  Sint Maarten Yes 2018 
97.  Switzerland Yes  2018 
98.  Turkey No 2018 
99.  United Arab Emirates No 2018 
100.  Uruguay Yes 2018 
101.  Vanuatu  No 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
Automatic Exchange of Information 
Automatic Exchange of Information is the systematic and periodic collection and 
transmission of “bulk” taxpayer information by the source country to the country of residence 
of the taxpayer, without the latter country having to make a request for the same. The 
exchange of information on an automatic basis is permitted under the provisions of DTAAs 
(unless specifically prohibited) and under the Multilateral Convention. 
Many countries, including India, have been exchanging information automatically under the 
DTAAs and Multilateral Convention with their treaty partners for long. However, the 
exchange of information was not obligatory; there was no uniformity in the nature and type 
of information exchanged and further, there were no standards on the periodicity of exchange 
or on the technical solutions to be utilised for collection and transmission of information. 
Thus, the information exchanged automatically often was of limited use to the receiving 
country. 
To address these issues, a single uniform and global standard for automatic exchange of 
information has been developed which is known as the Common Reporting Standard on 
Automatic Exchange of Information. 
The Global Forum has established a AEOI Group in consequence of the G20 Leaders’ 
Declaration in September, 2013 with a view to establish a mechanism to monitor and review 
the implementation of the new global standard on automatic exchange of information. India is 
a vice-chair of this Group. 
Beneficial Owner 
Beneficial owner refers to the natural person(s) who ultimately owns or controls the legal 
entity or the legal arrangement and include the natural person on whose behalf a transaction 
is being conducted, including those persons who exercise ultimate effective control over the 
legal entity or arrangement. 
Competent Authority 
The term “Competent Authority” is defined in the tax treaties as the Minister of 
Finance/Ministry of Finance or a person authorized by it. In India, JS (FT&TR-I) performs 
the role of Competent Authority for countries in North America (including Caribbean) and 
Europe, while JS (FT&TR-II) performs the role of Competent Authority for the rest of the 
world. 
Common Reporting Standards on Automatic Exchange of Information 
The Common Reporting Standards on Automatic Exchange of Information is a uniform 
global standard for the collection of financial account information by financial institutions in 
participating jurisdictions in respect of account holders who are residents in another 
jurisdiction and reporting of that information to the jurisdictions’ tax authority for exchanging 
the information with the respective tax authorities of the non-residents on an automatic basis. 
It has been designed with a broad scope across the following three dimensions to ensure that 
meaningful information is exchanged automatically: 
78 | P a g e 
(a) The financial information to be reported with respect to reportable accounts includes all 
types of investment income (including interest, dividends, income from certain insurance 
contracts and other similar types of income) and also includes account balances and sales 
proceeds from financial assets. 
(b) The financial institutions that are required to report under the Common Reporting 
Standards do not only include banks and custodians but also other financial institutions such 
as brokers, certain collective investment vehicles and certain insurance companies. 
(c) Reportable accounts include accounts held by individuals and entities (which includes 
trusts and foundations), and the standard includes a requirement to look through passive 
entities to report on the individuals that ultimately control these entities. 
Financial Asset 
The term “Financial Asset” includes a security (for example, a share of stock in a 
corporation; partnership or beneficial ownership interest in a widely held or publicly traded 
partnership or trust; note, bond, debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness), partnership 
interest, commodity, swap (for example, interest rate swaps, currency swaps, basis swaps, 
interest rate caps, interest rate floors, commodity swaps, equity swaps, equity index swaps, 
and similar agreements), Insurance Contract or Annuity Contract, or any interest (including a 
futures or forward contract or option) in a security, partnership interest, commodity, swap, 
Insurance Contract, or Annuity Contract. The term “Financial Asset” does not include a non
debt, direct interest in real property. 
Foreign Accounts Tax Compliance Act 
Consequent to serious concerns raised in the USA on offshore tax evasion, the United States 
Senate Permanent Sub-Committee on Investigations chaired by Mr. Carl Levin submitted a 
report on 17th July,2008, which resulted in introduction of Foreign Accounts Tax 
Compliance Act in 2010, which essentially has two components 
(a) 30% withholding tax on US source payments made to Foreign Financial Institutions 
unless they enter into an agreement with the US IRS to provide information about accounts 
held with them by USA persons or entities controlled by USA person through the new 
Chapter 4 of subtitle “A” comprising of sections 1471 to 1474 in their Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 
(b) Requiring U.S. persons, owning foreign accounts or other specified financial assets, to 
report these on a new IRS Form 8938, Statement of Specified Foreign Financial Assets, and 
filing of the same with tax returns 
Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information For Tax Purposes 
The Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information For Tax Purposes is the 
continuation of a forum which was created in the early 2000s in the context of the OECD’s 
work to address the risks to tax compliance posed by tax havens. The original members of the 
Global Forum consisted of OECD countries and jurisdictions that had agreed to implement 
transparency and exchange of information for tax purposes. 
79 | P a g e 
The Global Forum was restructured in September 2009 in response to the G20 call to 
strengthen implementation of these standards. The Global Forum now has 126 members on 
equal footing and is the premier international body for ensuring the implementation of the 
internationally agreed standards of transparency and exchange of information in the tax area. 
Through an in-depth peer review process, there structured Global Forum monitors that its 
members fully implement the standard of transparency and exchange of information they 
have committed to implement. It also works to establish a level playing field, even among 
countries that have not joined the Global Forum. 
Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters 
Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters is a multilateral 
instrument for wide range of administrative co-operation between states in the assessment 
and collection of taxes, in particular with a view to combating tax avoidance and evasion. 
This co-operation ranges from exchange of information, including automatic exchanges, to 
the recovery of foreign tax claims. The original Convention was developed jointly by the 
Council of Europe and the OECD and opened for signature by the member states of both 
organizations on 25 January 1988. It was amended in 2010 to align it to the international 
standard and to open it to all countries, responding to the call of the G20 to make it easier for 
all countries to secure the benefits of the new co-operative tax environment. The Multilateral 
Convention is in force in India since 1st June, 2012. As on 1st May, 2015, the Multilateral 
Convention has been signed by 85 countries/jurisdictions out of which 64 
countries/jurisdictions have deposited the instrument of ratification. 
Non-Reporting Financial Institution 
Non-Reporting Financial Institution(NRFI) are defined in Rule114F(5) and includes financial 
institutions which are not required to report. 
Excluded Accounts 
Non-Participating Financial Institution 
Non-participating Financial Institution (NPFI) are defined Rule 114F(4). It means a financial 
institution defined in clause (r) of Article 1 of the IGA but does not include,- 
(a)  an Indian financial institution; or 
(b)  other jurisdiction, being a jurisdiction that has in effect an agreement with the 
United States of America to facilitate the implementation of  FATCA, financial 
institution, 
other than a financial institution treated as a non-participating financial institution 
pursuant to sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 2 of Article 5 of the FATCA agreement 
or the corresponding provision in an agreement between the United States of 
America and other partner jurisdiction; 
80 | P a g e 
Partner Jurisdiction 
The term “Partner Jurisdiction” means a jurisdiction that has in effect an agreement with 
the United States to facilitate the implementation of FATCA.  The USA IRS shall publish a 
list identifying all Partner Jurisdictions. 
81 | P a g e 
Appendix A: IGA between India and USA 
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of 
the United States of America to Improve International Tax Compliance and to 
Implement FATCA 
Whereas, the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United States of America (each, a 
“Party,” and together, the “Parties”) desire to conclude an agreement to improve international tax compliance 
through mutual assistance in tax matters based on an effective infrastructure for the automatic exchange of 
information; 
Whereas, Article 28 of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of 
the United States of America for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with 
respect to Taxes on Income, together with a related protocol (the “Convention”), done at New Delhi on 
September 12, 1989 authorizes the exchange of information for tax purposes, including on an automatic basis; 
Whereas, the United States of America enacted provisions commonly known as the Foreign Account Tax 
Compliance Act (“FATCA”), which introduce a reporting regime for financial institutions with respect to certain 
accounts; 
Whereas, the Government of India is supportive of the underlying policy goal of FATCA to improve tax 
compliance; 
Whereas, FATCA has raised a number of issues, including that Indian financial institutions may not be able to 
comply with certain aspects of FATCA due to domestic legal impediments; 
Whereas, the Government of the United States of America collects information regarding certain accounts 
maintained by U.S. financial institutions held by residents of India and is committed to exchanging such 
information with the Government of India and pursuing equivalent levels of exchange; 
Whereas, the Parties are committed to working together over the longer term towards achieving common 
reporting and due diligence standards for financial institutions; 
Whereas, the Government of the United States of America acknowledges the need to coordinate the reporting 
obligations under FATCA with other U.S. tax reporting obligations of Indian financial institutions to avoid 
duplicative reporting; 
Whereas, an intergovernmental approach to FATCA implementation would address legal impediments and 
reduce burdens for Indian financial institutions; 
Whereas, the Parties desire to conclude an agreement to improve international tax compliance and provide for 
the implementation of FATCA based on domestic reporting and reciprocal automatic exchange pursuant to the 
Convention, and subject to the confidentiality and other protections provided for therein, including the 
provisions limiting the use of the information exchanged under the Convention; 
Now, therefore, the Parties have agreed as follows: 
Article 1 
Definitions 
1. 
For purposes of this agreement and any annexes thereto (“Agreement”), the following terms shall have 
the meanings set forth below: 
a) 
The term “United States” means the United States of America, including the States thereof, 
and, when used in a geographical sense, means the territory of the United States of America, 
including inland waters, the air space, the territorial sea thereof and any maritime area beyond 
the territorial sea within which the United States may exercise sovereign rights or jurisdiction 
82 | P a g e 
in accordance with international law; the term, however, does not include the U.S. Territories. 
Any reference to a “State” of the United States includes the District of Columbia.  
b) 
c) 
d) 
e) 
f) 
g) 
h) 
i) 
j) 
k) 
l) 
m) 
n) 
o) 
p) 
The term “U.S. Territory” means American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern 
Mariana Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
The term “IRS” means the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. 
The term “India” means the Republic of India, and when used in a geographical sense, means 
the territory of India and includes the territorial sea and airspace above it, as well as any other 
maritime zone in which India has sovereign rights, other rights and jurisdiction, according to 
the Indian law and in accordance with international law, including the U.N. Convention on the 
Law of the Sea. 
The term “Partner Jurisdiction” means a jurisdiction that has in effect an agreement with the 
United States to facilitate the implementation of FATCA.  The IRS shall publish a list 
identifying all Partner Jurisdictions. 
The term “Competent Authority” means: 
(1) 
in the case of the United States, the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate; and 
(2) 
in the case of India, the Central Government in the Ministry of Finance (Department 
of Revenue) or their authorized representative. 
The term “Financial Institution” means a Custodial Institution, a Depository Institution, an 
Investment Entity, or a Specified Insurance Company. 
The term “Custodial Institution” means any Entity that holds, as a substantial portion of its 
business, financial assets for the account of others.  An entity holds financial assets for the 
account of others as a substantial portion of its business if the entity’s gross income 
attributable to the holding of financial assets and related financial services equals or exceeds 
20 percent of the entity’s gross income during the shorter of:  (i) the three-year period that 
ends on December 31 (or the final day of a non-calendar year accounting period) prior to the 
year in which the determination is being made; or (ii) the period during which the entity has 
been in existence. 
The term “Depository Institution” means any Entity that accepts deposits in the ordinary 
course of a banking or similar business.   
The term “Investment Entity” means any Entity that conducts as a business (or is managed 
by an entity that conducts as a business) one or more of the following activities or operations 
for or on behalf of a customer: 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
trading in money market instruments (cheques, bills, certificates of deposit, 
derivatives, etc.); foreign exchange; exchange, interest rate and index instruments; 
transferable securities; or commodity futures trading; 
individual and collective portfolio management; or 
otherwise investing, administering, or managing funds or money on behalf of other 
persons. 
This subparagraph 1(j) shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with similar language set 
forth in the definition of “financial institution” in the Financial Action Task Force 
Recommendations. 
The term “Specified Insurance Company” means any Entity that is an insurance company 
(or the holding company of an insurance company) that issues, or is obligated to make 
payments with respect to, a Cash Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract. 
The term “Indian Financial Institution” means (i) any Financial Institution resident in India, 
but excluding any branch of such Financial Institution that is located outside India, and (ii) 
any branch of a Financial Institution not resident in India, if such branch is located in India. 
The term “Partner Jurisdiction Financial Institution” means (i) any Financial Institution 
established in a Partner Jurisdiction, but excluding any branch of such Financial Institution 
that is located outside the Partner Jurisdiction, and (ii) any branch of a Financial Institution not 
established in the Partner Jurisdiction, if such branch is located in the Partner Jurisdiction. 
The term “Reporting Financial Institution” means a Reporting Indian Financial Institution 
or a Reporting U.S. Financial Institution, as the context requires. 
The term “Reporting Indian Financial Institution” means any Indian Financial Institution 
that is not a Non-Reporting Indian Financial Institution. 
The term “Reporting U.S. Financial Institution” means (i) any Financial Institution that is 
resident in the United States, but excluding any branch of such Financial Institution that is 
located outside the United States, and (ii) any branch of a Financial Institution not resident in 
the United States, if such branch is located in the United States, provided that the Financial 
83 | P a g e 
Institution or branch has control, receipt, or custody of income with respect to which 
information is required to be exchanged under subparagraph (2)(b) of Article 2 of this 
Agreement. 
q) 
r) 
s) 
t) 
u) 
v) 
The term “Non-Reporting Indian Financial Institution” means any Indian Financial 
Institution, or other Entity resident in India, that is described in Annex II as a Non-Reporting 
Indian Financial Institution or that otherwise qualifies as a deemed-compliant FFI or an 
exempt beneficial owner under relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations in effect on the date of 
signature of this Agreement. 
The term “Nonparticipating Financial Institution” means a nonparticipating FFI, as that 
term is defined in relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations, but does not include an Indian Financial 
Institution or other Partner Jurisdiction Financial Institution other than a Financial Institution 
treated as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution pursuant to subparagraph 2(b) of Article 5 
of this Agreement or the corresponding provision in an agreement between the United States 
and a Partner Jurisdiction. 
The term “Financial Account” means an account maintained by a Financial Institution, and 
includes: 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
in the case of an Entity that is a Financial Institution solely because it is an 
Investment Entity, any equity or debt interest (other than interests that are regularly 
traded on an established securities market) in the Financial Institution;  
in the case of a Financial Institution not described in subparagraph 1(s)(1) of this 
Article, any equity or debt interest in the Financial Institution (other than interests 
that are regularly traded on an established securities market), if (i) the value of the 
debt or equity interest is determined, directly or indirectly, primarily by reference to 
assets that give rise to U.S. Source Withholdable Payments, and (ii) the class of 
interests was established with a purpose of avoiding reporting in accordance with this 
Agreement; and 
any Cash Value Insurance Contract and any Annuity Contract issued or maintained 
by a Financial Institution, other than a noninvestment-linked, nontransferable 
immediate life annuity that is issued to an individual and monetizes a pension or 
disability benefit provided under an account that is excluded from the definition of 
Financial Account in Annex II. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term “Financial Account” does not include any account 
that is excluded from the definition of Financial Account in Annex II.  For purposes of this 
Agreement, interests are “regularly traded” if there is a meaningful volume of trading with 
respect to the interests on an ongoing basis, and an “established securities market” means an 
exchange that is officially recognized and supervised by a governmental authority in which 
the market is located and that has a meaningful annual value of shares traded on the 
exchange.  For purposes of this subparagraph 1(s), an interest in a Financial Institution is not 
“regularly traded” and shall be treated as a Financial Account if the holder of the interest 
(other than a Financial Institution acting as an intermediary) is registered on the books of such 
Financial Institution.  The preceding sentence will not apply to interests first registered on the 
books of such Financial Institution prior to July 1, 2014, and with respect to interests first 
registered on the books of such Financial Institution on or after July 1, 2014, a Financial 
Institution is not required to apply the preceding sentence prior to January 1, 2016. 
The term “Depository Account” includes any commercial, checking, savings, time, or thrift 
account, or an account that is evidenced by a certificate of deposit, thrift certificate, 
investment certificate, certificate of indebtedness, or other similar instrument maintained by a 
Financial Institution in the ordinary course of a banking or similar business.  A Depository 
Account also includes an amount held by an insurance company pursuant to a guaranteed 
investment contract or similar agreement to pay or credit interest thereon. 
The term “Custodial Account” means an account (other than an Insurance Contract or 
Annuity Contract) for the benefit of another person that holds any financial instrument or 
contract held for investment (including, but not limited to, a share or stock in a corporation, a 
note, bond, debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness, a currency or commodity 
transaction, a credit default swap, a swap based upon a nonfinancial index, a notional principal 
contract, an Insurance Contract or Annuity Contract, and any option or other derivative 
instrument). 
The term “Equity Interest” means, in the case of a partnership that is a Financial Institution, 
either a capital or profits interest in the partnership.  In the case of a trust that is a Financial 
84 | P a g e 
Institution, an Equity Interest is considered to be held by any person treated as a settlor or 
beneficiary of all or a portion of the trust, or any other natural person exercising ultimate 
effective control over the trust.  A Specified U.S. Person shall be treated as being a beneficiary 
of a foreign trust if such Specified U.S. Person has the right to receive directly or indirectly 
(for example, through a nominee) a mandatory distribution or may receive, directly or 
indirectly, a discretionary distribution from the trust.   
w) 
x) 
y) 
z) 
aa) 
bb) 
cc) 
dd) 
The term “Insurance Contract” means a contract (other than an Annuity Contract) under 
which the issuer agrees to pay an amount upon the occurrence of a specified contingency 
involving mortality, morbidity, accident, liability, or property risk. 
The term “Annuity Contract” means a contract under which the issuer agrees to make 
payments for a period of time determined in whole or in part by reference to the life 
expectancy of one or more individuals.  The term also includes a contract that is considered to 
be an Annuity Contract in accordance with the law, regulation, or practice of the jurisdiction in 
which the contract was issued, and under which the issuer agrees to make payments for a term 
of years.  
The term “Cash Value Insurance Contract” means an Insurance Contract (other than an 
indemnity reinsurance contract between two insurance companies) that has a Cash Value 
greater than $50,000. 
The term “Cash Value” means the greater of (i) the amount that the policyholder is entitled to 
receive upon surrender or termination of the contract (determined without reduction for any 
surrender charge or policy loan), and (ii) the amount the policyholder can borrow under or 
with regard to the contract.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term “Cash Value” does not 
include an amount payable under an Insurance Contract as:  
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
a personal injury or sickness benefit or other benefit providing indemnification of an 
economic loss incurred upon the occurrence of the event insured against;  
a refund to the policyholder of a previously paid premium under an Insurance 
Contract (other than under a life insurance contract) due to policy cancellation or 
termination, decrease in risk exposure during the effective period of the Insurance 
Contract, or arising from a redetermination of the premium due to correction of 
posting or other similar error; or  
a policyholder dividend based upon the underwriting experience of the contract or 
group involved. 
The term “Reportable Account” means a U.S. Reportable Account or an Indian Reportable 
Account, as the context requires. 
The term “Indian Reportable Account” means a Financial Account maintained by a 
Reporting U.S. Financial Institution if:  (i) in the case of a Depository Account, the account is 
held by an individual resident in India and more than $10 of interest is paid to such account in 
any given calendar year; or (ii) in the case of a Financial Account other than a Depository 
Account, the Account Holder is a resident of India, including an Entity that certifies that it is 
resident in India for tax purposes, with respect to which U.S. source income that is subject to 
reporting under chapter 3 of subtitle A or chapter 61 of subtitle F of the U.S. Internal Revenue 
Code is paid or credited. 
The term “U.S. Reportable Account” means a Financial Account maintained by a Reporting 
Indian Financial Institution and held by one or more Specified U.S. Persons or by a Non-U.S. 
Entity with one or more Controlling Persons that is a Specified U.S. Person.  Notwithstanding 
the foregoing, an account shall not be treated as a U.S. Reportable Account if such account is 
not identified as a U.S. Reportable Account after application of the due diligence procedures 
in Annex I. 
The term “Account Holder” means the person listed or identified as the holder of a Financial 
Account by the Financial Institution that maintains the account.  A person, other than a 
Financial Institution, holding a Financial Account for the benefit or account of another person 
as agent, custodian, nominee, signatory, investment advisor, or intermediary, is not treated as 
holding the account for purposes of this Agreement, and such other person is treated as 
holding the account.  For purposes of the immediately preceding sentence, the term “Financial 
Institution” does not include a Financial Institution organized or incorporated in a U.S. 
Territory.  In the case of a Cash Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract, the Account 
Holder is any person entitled to access the Cash Value or change the beneficiary of the 
contract.  If no person can access the Cash Value or change the beneficiary, the Account 
Holder is any person named as the owner in the contract and any person with a vested 
entitlement to payment under the terms of the contract.  Upon the maturity of a Cash Value 
85 | P a g e 
Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract, each person entitled to receive a payment under 
the contract is treated as an Account Holder. 
ee) 
ff) 
gg) 
hh) 
ii) 
jj) 
kk) 
ll) 
The term “U.S. Person” means a U.S. citizen or resident individual, a partnership or 
corporation organized in the United States or under the laws of the United States or any State 
thereof, a trust if (i) a court within the United States would have authority under applicable 
law to render orders or judgments concerning substantially all issues regarding administration 
of the trust, and (ii) one or more U.S. persons have the authority to control all substantial 
decisions of the trust, or an estate of a decedent that is a citizen or resident of the United 
States.  This subparagraph 1(ee) shall be interpreted in accordance with the U.S. Internal 
Revenue Code. 
The term “Specified U.S. Person” means a U.S. Person, other than:  (i) a corporation the 
stock of which is regularly traded on one or more established securities markets; (ii) any 
corporation that is a member of the same expanded affiliated group, as defined in section 
1471(e)(2) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as a corporation described in clause (i); (iii) the 
United States or any wholly owned agency or instrumentality thereof; (iv) any State of the 
United States, any U.S. Territory, any political subdivision of any of the foregoing, or any 
wholly owned agency or instrumentality of any one or more of the foregoing; (v) any 
organization exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code or 
an individual retirement plan as defined in section 7701(a)(37) of the U.S. Internal Revenue 
Code; (vi) any bank as defined in section 581 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code; (vii) any real 
estate investment trust as defined in section 856 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code; (viii) any 
regulated investment company as defined in section 851 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code or 
any entity registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment 
Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-64); (ix) any common trust fund as defined in section 
584(a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code; (x) any trust that is exempt from tax under section 
664(c) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code or that is described in section 4947(a)(1) of the U.S. 
Internal Revenue Code; (xi) a dealer in securities, commodities, or derivative financial 
instruments (including notional principal contracts, futures, forwards, and options) that is 
registered as such under the laws of the United States or any State; (xii) a broker as defined in 
section 6045(c) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code; or (xiii) any tax-exempt trust under a plan 
that is described in section 403(b) or section 457(g) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.   
The term “Entity” means a legal person or a legal arrangement such as a trust.  
The term “Non-U.S. Entity” means an Entity that is not a U.S. Person. 
The term “U.S. Source Withholdable Payment” means any payment of interest (including 
any original issue discount), dividends, rents, salaries, wages, premiums, annuities, 
compensations, remunerations, emoluments, and other fixed or determinable annual or 
periodical gains, profits, and income, if such payment is from sources within the United 
States.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a U.S. Source Withholdable Payment does not include 
any payment that is not treated as a withholdable payment in relevant U.S. Treasury 
Regulations. 
An Entity is a “Related Entity” of another Entity if either Entity controls the other Entity, or 
the two Entities are under common control.  For this purpose control includes direct or indirect 
ownership of more than 50 percent of the vote or value in an Entity.  Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, India may treat an Entity as not a Related Entity of another Entity if the two 
Entities are not members of the same expanded affiliated group as defined in section 
1471(e)(2) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. 
The term “U.S. TIN” means a U.S. federal taxpayer identifying number. 
The term “Indian TIN” means an Indian taxpayer identifying number.  
mm) The term “Controlling Persons” means the natural persons who exercise control over an 
Entity.  In the case of a trust, such term means the settlor, the trustees, the protector (if any), 
the beneficiaries or class of beneficiaries, and any other natural person exercising ultimate 
effective control over the trust, and in the case of a legal arrangement other than a trust, such 
term means persons in equivalent or similar positions.  The term “Controlling Persons” shall 
be interpreted in a manner consistent with the Financial Action Task Force Recommendations.  
2. 
Any term not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall, unless the context otherwise requires or the 
Competent Authorities agree to a common meaning (as permitted by domestic law), have the meaning that it has 
at that time under the law of the Party applying this Agreement, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of 
that Party prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that Party. 
3.  
Article 2 
86 | P a g e 
Obligations to Obtain and Exchange Information with Respect to Reportable Accounts 
1. 
Subject to the provisions of Article 3 of this Agreement, each Party shall obtain the information 
specified in paragraph 2 of this Article with respect to all Reportable Accounts and shall annually exchange this 
information with the other Party on an automatic basis pursuant to the provisions of Article 28 of the 
Convention. 
2. 
1. 
The information to be obtained and exchanged is: 
a) 
b) 
In the case of India with respect to each U.S. Reportable Account of each Reporting Indian 
Financial Institution: 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
the name, address, and U.S. TIN of each Specified U.S. Person that is an Account 
Holder of such account and, in the case of a Non-U.S. Entity that, after application of 
the due diligence procedures set forth in Annex I, is identified as having one or more 
Controlling Persons that is a Specified U.S. Person, the name, address, and U.S. TIN 
(if any) of such entity and each such Specified U.S. Person; 
the account number (or functional equivalent in the absence of an account number);  
the name and identifying number of the Reporting Indian Financial Institution; 
the account balance or value (including, in the case of a Cash Value Insurance 
Contract or Annuity Contract, the Cash Value or surrender value) as of the end of the 
relevant calendar year or other appropriate reporting period or, if the account was 
closed during such year, immediately before closure;  
in the case of any Custodial Account:   
(A) 
the total gross amount of interest, the total gross amount of dividends, and 
the total gross amount of other income generated with respect to the assets 
held in the account, in each case paid or credited to the account (or with 
respect to the account) during the calendar year or other appropriate 
reporting period; and  
(B) 
the total gross proceeds from the sale or redemption of property paid or 
credited to the account during the calendar year or other appropriate 
reporting period with respect to which the Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution acted as a custodian, broker, nominee, or otherwise as an agent 
for the Account Holder;   
in the case of any Depository Account, the total gross amount of interest paid or 
credited to the account during the calendar year or other appropriate reporting period; 
and 
in the case of any account not described in subparagraph 2(a)(5) or 2(a)(6) of this 
Article, the total gross amount paid or credited to the Account Holder with respect to 
the account during the calendar year or other appropriate reporting period with 
respect to which the Reporting Indian Financial Institution is the obligor or debtor, 
including the aggregate amount of any redemption payments made to the Account 
Holder during the calendar year or other appropriate reporting period. 
In the case of the United States, with respect to each Indian Reportable Account of each 
Reporting U.S. Financial Institution: 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
the name, address, and Indian TIN of any person that is a resident of India and is an 
Account Holder of the account;   
the account number (or the functional equivalent in the absence of an account 
number);  
the name and identifying number of the Reporting U.S. Financial Institution; 
the gross amount of interest paid on a Depository Account; 
the gross amount of U.S. source dividends paid or credited to the account; and  
the gross amount of other U.S. source income paid or credited to the account, to the 
extent subject to reporting under chapter 3 of subtitle A or chapter 61 of subtitle F of 
the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. 
Article 3 
Time and Manner of Exchange of Information 
For purposes of the exchange obligation in Article 2 of this Agreement, the amount and characterization 
of payments made with respect to a U.S. Reportable Account may be determined in accordance with the 
87 | P a g e 
principles of the tax laws of India, and the amount and characterization of payments made with respect to an 
Indian Reportable Account may be determined in accordance with principles of U.S. federal income tax law.   
2. 
For purposes of the exchange obligation in Article 2 of this Agreement, the information exchanged 
shall identify the currency in which each relevant amount is denominated. 
3. 
With respect to paragraph 2 of Article 2 of this Agreement, information is to be obtained and 
exchanged with respect to 2014 and all subsequent years, except that: 
a) 
b) 
4. 
In the case of India: 
(1) 
the information to be obtained and exchanged with respect to 2014 is only the 
information described in subparagraphs 2(a)(1) through 2(a)(4) of Article 2 of this 
Agreement;   
(2) 
(3) 
the information to be obtained and exchanged with respect to 2015 is the information 
described in subparagraphs 2(a)(1) through 2(a)(7) of Article 2 of this Agreement, 
except for gross proceeds described in subparagraph 2(a)(5)(B) of Article 2 of this 
Agreement; and 
the information to be obtained and exchanged with respect to 2016 and subsequent 
years is the information described in subparagraphs 2(a)(1) through 2(a)(7) of Article 
2 of this Agreement; 
In the case of the United States, the information to be obtained and exchanged with respect to 
2014 and subsequent years is all of the information identified in subparagraph 2(b) of Article 2 
of this Agreement.  
Notwithstanding paragraph 3 of this Article, with respect to each Reportable Account that is maintained 
by a Reporting Financial Institution as of June 30, 2014, and subject to paragraph 4 of Article 6 of this 
Agreement, the Parties are not required to obtain and include in the exchanged information the Indian TIN or the 
U.S. TIN, as applicable, of any relevant person if such taxpayer identifying number is not in the records of the 
Reporting Financial Institution.  In such a case, the Parties shall obtain and include in the exchanged information 
the date of birth of the relevant person, if the Reporting Financial Institution has such date of birth in its records. 
5. 
Subject to paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article, the information described in Article 2 of this Agreement 
shall be exchanged within nine months after the end of the calendar year to which the information relates.  
6. 
The Competent Authorities of India and the United States shall enter into an agreement or arrangement 
under the mutual agreement procedure provided for in Article 27 of the Convention, which shall: 
a) 
establish the procedures for the automatic exchange obligations described in Article 2 of this 
Agreement; 
b) 
c) 
7. 
prescribe rules and procedures as may be necessary to implement Article 5 of this Agreement; 
and 
establish as necessary procedures for the exchange of the information reported under 
subparagraph 1(b) of Article 4 of this Agreement. 
All information exchanged shall be subject to the confidentiality and other protections provided for in 
the Convention, including the provisions limiting the use of the information exchanged. 
8. 
Following entry into force of this Agreement, each Competent Authority shall provide written 
notification to the other Competent Authority when it is satisfied that the jurisdiction of the other Competent 
Authority has in place (i) appropriate safeguards to ensure that the information received pursuant to this 
Agreement shall remain confidential and be used solely for tax purposes, and (ii) the infrastructure for an 
effective exchange relationship (including established processes for ensuring timely, accurate, and confidential 
information exchanges, effective and reliable communications, and demonstrated capabilities to promptly 
resolve questions and concerns about exchanges or requests for exchanges and to administer the provisions of 
Article 5 of this Agreement).  The Competent Authorities shall endeavor in good faith to meet, prior to 
September 2015, to establish that each jurisdiction has such safeguards and infrastructure in place. 
9. 
The obligations of the Parties to obtain and exchange information under Article 2 of this Agreement 
shall take effect on the date of the later of the written notifications described in paragraph 8 of this Article. 
88 | P a g e 
10. 
This Agreement shall terminate on September 30, 2015, if Article 2 of this Agreement is not in effect 
pursuant to paragraph 9 of this Article by that date.  
Article 4 
Application of FATCA to Indian Financial Institutions 
1. 
Treatment of Reporting Indian Financial Institutions.  Each Reporting Indian Financial Institution 
shall be treated as complying with, and not subject to withholding under, section 1471 of the U.S. Internal 
Revenue Code if India complies with its obligations under Articles 2 and 3 of this Agreement with respect to 
such Reporting Indian Financial Institution, and the Reporting Indian Financial Institution: 
a) 
b) 
c) 
d) 
e) 
identifies U.S. Reportable Accounts and reports annually to the Indian Competent Authority 
the information required to be reported in subparagraph 2(a) of Article 2 of this Agreement in 
the time and manner described in Article 3 of this Agreement; 
for each of 2015 and 2016, reports annually to the Indian Competent Authority the name of 
each Nonparticipating Financial Institution to which it has made payments and the aggregate 
amount of such payments; 
complies with the applicable registration requirements on the IRS FATCA registration 
website; 
to the extent that a Reporting Indian Financial Institution is (i) acting as a qualified 
intermediary (for purposes of section 1441 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code) that has elected 
to assume primary withholding responsibility under chapter 3 of subtitle A of the U.S. Internal 
Revenue Code, (ii) a foreign partnership that has elected to act as a withholding foreign 
partnership (for purposes of both sections 1441 and 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code), 
or (iii) a foreign trust that has elected to act as a withholding foreign trust (for purposes of 
both sections 1441 and 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code), withholds 30 percent of any 
U.S. Source Withholdable Payment to any Nonparticipating Financial Institution; and  
in the case of a Reporting Indian Financial Institution that is not described in subparagraph 
1(d) of this Article and that makes a payment of, or acts as an intermediary with respect to, a 
U.S. Source Withholdable Payment to any Nonparticipating Financial Institution, the 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution provides to any immediate payor of such U.S. Source 
Withholdable Payment the information required for withholding and reporting to occur with 
respect to such payment. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Reporting Indian Financial Institution with respect to which the conditions of 
this paragraph 1 are not satisfied shall not be subject to withholding under section 1471 of the U.S. Internal 
Revenue Code unless such Reporting Indian Financial Institution is treated by the IRS as a Nonparticipating 
Financial Institution pursuant to subparagraph 2(b) of Article 5 of this Agreement. 
2. 
Suspension of Rules Relating to Recalcitrant Accounts.  The United States shall not require a 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution to withhold tax under section 1471 or 1472 of the U.S. Internal Revenue 
Code with respect to an account held by a recalcitrant account holder (as defined in section 1471(d)(6) of the 
U.S. Internal Revenue Code), or to close such account, if the U.S. Competent Authority receives the information 
set forth in subparagraph 2(a) of Article 2 of this Agreement, subject to the provisions of Article 3 of this 
Agreement, with respect to such account. 
3. 
Specific Treatment of Indian Retirement Plans.  The United States shall treat as deemed-compliant 
FFIs or exempt beneficial owners, as appropriate, for purposes of sections 1471 and 1472 of the U.S. Internal 
Revenue Code, Indian retirement plans described in Annex II.  For this purpose, an Indian retirement plan 
includes an Entity established or located in, and regulated by, India, or a predetermined contractual or legal 
arrangement, operated to provide pension or retirement benefits or earn income for providing such benefits 
under the laws of India and regulated with respect to contributions, distributions, reporting, sponsorship, and 
taxation.     
4. 
Identification and Treatment of Other Deemed-Compliant FFIs and Exempt Beneficial Owners.  
The United States shall treat each Non-Reporting Indian Financial Institution as a deemed-compliant FFI or as 
an exempt beneficial owner, as appropriate, for purposes of section 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.   
5. 
Special Rules Regarding Related Entities and Branches That Are Nonparticipating Financial 
Institutions.  If an Indian Financial Institution, that otherwise meets the requirements described in paragraph 1 
89 | P a g e 
of this Article or is described in paragraph 3 or 4 of this Article, has a Related Entity or branch that operates in a 
jurisdiction that prevents such Related Entity or branch from fulfilling the requirements of a participating FFI or 
deemed-compliant FFI for purposes of section 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code or has a Related Entity 
or branch that is treated as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution solely due to the expiration of the transitional 
rule for limited FFIs and limited branches under relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations, such Indian Financial 
Institution shall continue to be in compliance with the terms of this Agreement and shall continue to be treated 
as a deemed-compliant FFI or exempt beneficial owner, as appropriate, for purposes of section 1471 of the U.S. 
Internal Revenue Code, provided that: 
a) 
b) 
c) 
6. 
the Indian Financial Institution treats each such Related Entity or branch as a separate 
Nonparticipating Financial Institution for purposes of all the reporting and withholding 
requirements of this Agreement and each such Related Entity or branch identifies itself to 
withholding agents as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution; 
each such Related Entity or branch identifies its U.S. accounts and reports the information 
with respect to those accounts as required under section 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue 
Code to the extent permitted under the relevant laws pertaining to the Related Entity or 
branch; and 
such Related Entity or branch does not specifically solicit U.S. accounts held by persons that 
are not resident in the jurisdiction where such Related Entity or branch is located or accounts 
held by Nonparticipating Financial Institutions that are not established in the jurisdiction 
where such Related Entity or branch is located, and such Related Entity or branch is not used 
by the Indian Financial Institution or any other Related Entity to circumvent the obligations 
under this Agreement or under section 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as 
appropriate. 
Coordination of Timing.  Notwithstanding paragraphs 3 and 5 of Article 3 of this Agreement:  
a) 
India shall not be obligated to obtain and exchange information with respect to a calendar year 
that is prior to the calendar year with respect to which similar information is required to be reported to the IRS 
by participating FFIs pursuant to relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations; 
b) 
India shall not be obligated to begin exchanging information prior to the date by which participating 
FFIs are required to report similar information to the IRS under relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations;  
c) 
the United States shall not be obligated to obtain and exchange information with respect to a calendar 
year that is prior to the first calendar year with respect to which India is required to obtain and exchange 
information; and 
d) 
the United States shall not be obligated to begin exchanging information prior to the date by which 
India is required to begin exchanging information. 
7. 
Coordination of Definitions with U.S. Treasury Regulations.  Notwithstanding Article 1 of this 
Agreement and the definitions provided in the Annexes to this Agreement, in implementing this Agreement, 
India may use, and may permit Indian Financial Institutions to use, a definition in relevant U.S. Treasury 
Regulations in lieu of a corresponding definition in this Agreement, provided that such application would not 
frustrate the purposes of this Agreement. 
Article 5 
Collaboration on Compliance and Enforcement 
1. 
Minor and Administrative Errors.  A Competent Authority shall notify the Competent Authority of 
the other Party when the first-mentioned Competent Authority has reason to believe that administrative errors or 
other minor errors may have led to incorrect or incomplete information reporting or resulted in other 
infringements of this Agreement.  The Competent Authority of such other Party shall apply its domestic law 
(including applicable penalties) to obtain corrected and/or complete information or to resolve other 
infringements of this Agreement. 
90 | P a g e 
2. 
Significant Non-Compliance. 
a) 
b) 
3. 
A Competent Authority shall notify the Competent Authority of the other Party when the first
mentioned Competent Authority has determined that there is significant non-compliance with 
the obligations under this Agreement with respect to a Reporting Financial Institution in the 
other jurisdiction.  The Competent Authority of such other Party shall apply its domestic law 
(including applicable penalties) to address the significant non-compliance described in the 
notice.   
If, in the case of a Reporting Indian Financial Institution, such enforcement actions do not 
resolve the non-compliance within a period of 18 months after notification of significant non
compliance is first provided, the United States shall treat the Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution pursuant to this subparagraph 2(b).  
Reliance on Third Party Service Providers.  Each Party may allow Reporting Financial Institutions 
to use third party service providers to fulfill the obligations imposed on such Reporting Financial Institutions by 
a Party, as contemplated in this Agreement, but these obligations shall remain the responsibility of the Reporting 
Financial Institutions. 
4. 
Prevention of Avoidance.  The Parties shall implement as necessary requirements to prevent Financial 
Institutions from adopting practices intended to circumvent the reporting required under this Agreement. 
Article 6 
Mutual Commitment to Continue to Enhance the Effectiveness of Information Exchange and 
Transparency 
1. 
Reciprocity.  The Government of the United States acknowledges the need to achieve equivalent levels 
of reciprocal automatic information exchange with India.  The Government of the United States is committed to 
further improve transparency and enhance the exchange relationship with India by pursuing the adoption of 
regulations and advocating and supporting relevant legislation to achieve such equivalent levels of reciprocal 
automatic information exchange. 
2. 
Treatment of Passthru Payments and Gross Proceeds.  The Parties are committed to work together, 
along with Partner Jurisdictions, to develop a practical and effective alternative approach to achieve the policy 
objectives of foreign passthru payment and gross proceeds withholding that minimizes burden.   
3. 
Development of Common Reporting and Exchange Model.  The Parties are committed to working 
with Partner Jurisdictions and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development  on adapting the 
terms of this Agreement and other agreements between the United States and Partner Jurisdictions to a common 
model for automatic exchange of information, including the development of reporting and due diligence 
standards for financial institutions. 
4. 
Documentation of Accounts Maintained as of June 30, 2014.  With respect to Reportable Accounts 
maintained by a Reporting Financial Institution as of June 30, 2014: 
a) 
b) 
The United States commits to establish, by January 1, 2017, for reporting with respect to 2017 
and subsequent years, rules requiring Reporting U.S. Financial Institutions to obtain and 
report the Indian TIN of each Account Holder of an Indian Reportable Account as required 
pursuant to subparagraph 2(b)(1) of Article 2 of this Agreement; and 
India commits to establish, by January 1, 2017, for reporting with respect to 2017 and 
subsequent years, rules requiring Reporting Indian Financial Institutions to obtain the U.S. 
TIN of each Specified U.S. Person as required pursuant to subparagraph 2(a)(1) of Article 2 of 
this Agreement. 
Article 7 
91 | P a g e 
Consistency in the Application of FATCA to Partner Jurisdictions  
1. 
India shall be granted the benefit of any more favorable terms under Article 4 or Annex I of this 
Agreement relating to the application of FATCA to Indian Financial Institutions afforded to another Partner 
Jurisdiction under a signed bilateral agreement pursuant to which the other Partner Jurisdiction commits to 
undertake the same obligations as India described in Articles 2 and 3 of this Agreement, and subject to the same 
terms and conditions as described therein and in Articles 5 through 9 of this Agreement.   
2. 
The United States shall notify India of any such more favorable terms, and such more favorable terms 
shall apply automatically under this Agreement as if such terms were specified in this Agreement and effective 
as of the date of signing of the agreement incorporating the more favorable terms, unless India declines in 
writing the application thereof. 
Article 8 
Consultations and Amendments 
1. In case any difficulties in the implementation of this Agreement arise, either Party may request 
consultations to develop appropriate measures to ensure the fulfillment of this Agreement. 
2. This Agreement may be amended by written mutual agreement of the Parties.  Unless otherwise agreed 
upon, such an amendment shall enter into force through the same procedures as set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Article 10 of this Agreement. 
Article 9 
Annexes 
The Annexes form an integral part of this Agreement. 
Article 10 
Term of Agreement 
1. 
This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of India’s written notification to the United States that 
India has completed its necessary internal procedures for entry into force of this Agreement.   
2. 
Either Party may terminate this Agreement by giving notice of termination in writing to the other Party.  
Such termination shall become effective on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of 12 
months after the date of the notice of termination. 
3. 
The Parties shall, prior to December 31, 2016, consult in good faith to amend this Agreement as 
necessary to reflect progress on the commitments set forth in Article 6 of this Agreement. 
In witness whereof, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have 
signed this Agreement. 
Done at the Government of the Republic of India Ministry of Finance, North Block, New Delhi, India, in 
duplicate, this 9th day of July, 2015, in the Hindi and English languages, both texts being equally authentic.  In 
case of divergence between the two texts, the English text shall be the operative one.   
92 | P a g e 
ANNEX I 
DUE DILIGENCE OBLIGATIONS FOR IDENTIFYING AND REPORTING ON U.S. REPORTABLE 
ACCOUNTS AND ON PAYMENTS TO CERTAIN NONPARTICIPATING FINANCIAL 
INSTITUTIONS 
I. 
General. 
A. India shall require that Reporting Indian Financial Institutions apply the due diligence procedures 
contained in this Annex I to identify U.S. Reportable Accounts and accounts held by Nonparticipating 
Financial Institutions.   
B. For purposes of the Agreement, 
1. All dollar amounts are in U.S. dollars and shall be read to include the equivalent in other 
currencies. 
2. Except as otherwise provided herein, the balance or value of an account shall be determined as 
of the last day of the calendar year or other appropriate reporting period. 
3. Where a balance or value threshold is to be determined as of June 30, 2014 under this Annex 
I, the relevant balance or value shall be determined as of that day or the last day of the 
reporting period ending immediately before June 30, 2014, and where a balance or value 
threshold is to be determined as of the last day of a calendar year under this Annex I, the 
relevant balance or value shall be determined as of the last day of the calendar year or other 
appropriate reporting period.   
4. Subject to subparagraph E(1) of section II of this Annex I, an account shall be treated as a 
U.S. Reportable Account beginning as of the date it is identified as such pursuant to the due 
diligence procedures in this Annex I. 
5. Unless otherwise provided, information with respect to a U.S. Reportable Account shall be 
reported annually in the calendar year following the year to which the information relates.  
II. Preexisting Individual Accounts.  The following rules and procedures apply for purposes of identifying 
U.S. Reportable Accounts among Preexisting Accounts held by individuals (“Preexisting Individual 
Accounts”). 
A. 
Accounts Not Required to Be Reviewed, Identified, or Reported.  Unless the Reporting 
Indian Financial Institution elects otherwise, either with respect to all Preexisting Individual Accounts 
or, separately, with respect to any clearly identified group of such accounts, where the implementing 
rules in India provide for such an election, the following Preexisting Individual Accounts are not 
required to be reviewed, identified, or reported as U.S. Reportable Accounts: 
1.  
Subject to subparagraph E(2) of this section, a Preexisting Individual Account with a balance 
or value that does not exceed $50,000 as of June 30, 2014. 
2. Subject to subparagraph E(2) of this section, a Preexisting Individual Account that is a Cash 
Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract with a balance or value of $250,000 or less 
as of June 30, 2014. 
3. A Preexisting Individual Account that is a Cash Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity 
Contract, provided the law or regulations of India or the United States effectively prevent the 
sale of such a Cash Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract to U.S. residents (e.g., if 
the relevant Financial Institution does not have the required registration under U.S. law, and 
the law of India requires reporting or withholding with respect to insurance products held by 
residents of India). 
4. A Depository Account with a balance of $50,000 or less. 
B. Review Procedures for Preexisting Individual Accounts With a Balance or Value as of June 30, 
2014, that Exceeds $50,000 ($250,000 for a Cash Value Insurance Contract or Annuity Contract), 
But Does Not Exceed $1,000,000 (“Lower Value Accounts”). 
1. Electronic Record Search.  The Reporting Indian Financial Institution must review 
electronically searchable data maintained by the Reporting Indian Financial Institution for any 
of the following U.S. indicia: 
a) Identification of the Account Holder as a U.S. citizen or resident; 
b) Unambiguous indication of a U.S. place of birth; 
c) Current U.S. mailing or residence address (including a U.S. post office box); 
d) Current U.S. telephone number; 
e) Standing instructions to transfer funds to an account maintained in the United States; 
93 | P a g e 
f) 
Currently effective power of attorney or signatory authority granted to a person with 
a U.S. address; or 
g) An “in-care-of” or “hold mail” address that is the sole address the Reporting Indian 
Financial Institution has on file for the Account Holder.  In the case of a Preexisting 
Individual Account that is a Lower Value Account, an “in-care-of” address outside 
the United States or “hold mail” address shall not be treated as U.S. indicia.  
2. If none of the U.S. indicia listed in subparagraph B(1) of this section are discovered in the 
electronic search, then no further action is required until there is a change in circumstances 
that results in one or more U.S. indicia being associated with the account, or the account 
becomes a High Value Account described in paragraph D of this section. 
3. If any of the U.S. indicia listed in subparagraph B(1) of this section are discovered in the 
electronic search, or if there is a change in circumstances that results in one or more U.S. 
indicia being associated with the account, then the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must 
treat the account as a U.S. Reportable Account unless it elects to apply subparagraph B(4) of 
this section and one of the exceptions in such subparagraph applies with respect to that 
account. 
4. Notwithstanding a finding of U.S. indicia under subparagraph B(1) of this section, a Reporting 
Indian Financial Institution is not required to treat an account as a U.S. Reportable Account if: 
a) Where the Account Holder information unambiguously indicates a U.S. place of 
birth, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution obtains, or has previously reviewed 
and maintains a record of: 
(1) A self-certification that the Account Holder is neither a U.S. citizen nor a 
U.S. resident for tax purposes (which may be on an IRS Form W-8 or other 
similar agreed form);  
(2)  A non-U.S. passport or other government-issued identification evidencing 
the Account Holder’s citizenship or nationality in a country other than the 
United States; and 
(3) A copy of the Account Holder’s Certificate of Loss of Nationality of the 
United States or a reasonable explanation of:  
(a) The reason the Account Holder does not have such a certificate 
despite relinquishing U.S. citizenship; or 
(b) The reason the Account Holder did not obtain U.S. citizenship at 
birth. 
b) Where the Account Holder information contains a current U.S. mailing or residence 
address, or one or more U.S. telephone numbers that are the only telephone 
numbers associated with the account, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution 
obtains, or has previously reviewed and maintains a record of: 
(1) A self-certification that the Account Holder is neither a U.S. citizen nor a 
U.S. resident for tax purposes (which may be on an IRS Form W-8 or other 
similar agreed form); and 
(2) Documentary evidence, as defined in paragraph D of section VI of this 
Annex I, establishing the Account Holder’s non-U.S. status. 
c) Where the Account Holder information contains standing instructions to transfer 
funds to an account maintained in the United States, the Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution obtains, or has previously reviewed and maintains a record of: 
(1) A self-certification that the Account Holder is neither a U.S. citizen nor a 
U.S. resident for tax purposes (which may be on an IRS Form W-8 or other 
similar agreed form); and 
(2) Documentary evidence, as defined in paragraph D of section VI of this 
Annex I, establishing the Account Holder’s non-U.S. status. 
d) Where the Account Holder information contains a currently effective power of 
attorney or signatory authority granted to a person with a U.S. address, has an “in
care-of” address or “hold mail” address that is the sole address identified for the 
Account Holder, or has one or more U.S. telephone numbers (if a non-U.S. 
telephone number is also associated with the account), the Reporting Indian 
Financial Institution obtains, or has previously reviewed and maintains a record of: 
(1) A self-certification that the Account Holder is neither a U.S. citizen nor a 
U.S. resident for tax purposes (which may be on an IRS Form W-8 or other 
similar agreed form); or 
94 | P a g e 
(2) Documentary evidence, as defined in paragraph D of section VI of this 
Annex I, establishing the Account Holder’s non-U.S. status. 
C. Additional Procedures Applicable to Preexisting Individual Accounts That Are Lower Value 
Accounts. 
1. Review of Preexisting Individual Accounts that are Lower Value Accounts for U.S. indicia 
must be completed by June 30, 2016.     
2. If there is a change of circumstances with respect to a Preexisting Individual Account that is a 
Lower Value Account that results in one or more U.S. indicia described in subparagraph B(1) 
of this section being associated with the account, then the Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution must treat the account as a U.S. Reportable Account unless subparagraph B(4) of 
this section applies. 
3. Except for Depository Accounts described in subparagraph A(4) of this section, any 
Preexisting Individual Account that has been identified as a U.S. Reportable Account under 
this section shall be treated as a U.S. Reportable Account in all subsequent years, unless the 
Account Holder ceases to be a Specified U.S. Person. 
D. Enhanced Review Procedures for Preexisting Individual Accounts With a Balance or Value That 
Exceeds $1,000,000 as of June 30, 2014, or December 31 of 2015 or Any Subsequent Year (“High 
Value Accounts”).  
1. Electronic Record Search.  The Reporting Indian Financial Institution must review 
electronically searchable data maintained by the Reporting Indian Financial Institution for any 
of the U.S. indicia described in subparagraph B(1) of this section. 
2. Paper Record Search.  If the Reporting Indian Financial Institution’s electronically 
searchable databases include fields for, and capture all of the information described in, 
subparagraph D(3) of this section, then no further paper record search is required.  If the 
electronic databases do not capture all of this information, then with respect to a High Value 
Account, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must also review the current customer 
master file and, to the extent not contained in the current customer master file, the following 
documents associated with the account and obtained by the Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution within the last five years for any of the U.S. indicia described in subparagraph B(1) 
of this section: 
a) The most recent documentary evidence collected with respect to the account; 
b) The most recent account opening contract or documentation; 
c) The most recent documentation obtained by the Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution pursuant to AML/KYC Procedures or for other regulatory purposes; 
d) Any power of attorney or signature authority forms currently in effect; and 
e) Any standing instructions to transfer funds currently in effect. 
3. Exception Where Databases Contain Sufficient Information.  A Reporting Indian 
Financial Institution is not required to perform the paper record search described in 
subparagraph D(2) of this section if the Reporting Indian Financial Institution’s electronically 
searchable information includes the following: 
a) The Account Holder’s nationality or residence status; 
b) The Account Holder’s residence address and mailing address currently on file with 
the Reporting Indian Financial Institution;  
c) The Account Holder’s telephone number(s) currently on file, if any, with the 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution;  
d) Whether there are standing instructions to transfer funds in the account to another 
account (including an account at another branch of the Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution or another Financial Institution); 
e) Whether there is a current “in-care-of” address or “hold mail” address for the 
Account Holder; and 
f) 
Whether there is any power of attorney or signatory authority for the account.  
4. Relationship Manager Inquiry for Actual Knowledge.  In addition to the electronic and 
paper record searches described above, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must treat as 
a U.S. Reportable Account any High Value Account assigned to a relationship manager 
(including any Financial Accounts aggregated with such High Value Account) if the 
relationship manager has actual knowledge that the Account Holder is a Specified U.S. 
Person. 
5. Effect of Finding U.S. Indicia.  
a) If none of the U.S. indicia listed in subparagraph B(1) of this section are discovered 
in the enhanced review of High Value Accounts described above, and the account is 
95 | P a g e 
not identified as held by a Specified U.S. Person in subparagraph D(4) of this section, 
then no further action is required until there is a change in circumstances that results 
in one or more U.S. indicia being associated with the account. 
b) If any of the U.S. indicia listed in subparagraph B(1) of this section are discovered in 
the enhanced review of High Value Accounts described above, or if there is a 
subsequent change in circumstances that results in one or more U.S. indicia being 
associated with the account, then the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must treat 
the account as a U.S. Reportable Account unless it elects to apply subparagraph B(4) 
of this section and one of the exceptions in such subparagraph applies with respect to 
that account. 
c) Except for Depository Accounts described in subparagraph A(4) of this section, any 
Preexisting Individual Account that has been identified as a U.S. Reportable Account 
under this section shall be treated as a U.S. Reportable Account in all subsequent 
years, unless the Account Holder ceases to be a Specified U.S. Person.  
E. Additional Procedures Applicable to High Value Accounts. 
1. If a Preexisting Individual Account is a High Value Account as of June 30, 2014, the 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution must complete the enhanced review procedures 
described in paragraph D of this section with respect to such account by June 30, 2015.  If 
based on this review such account is identified as a U.S. Reportable Account on or before 
December 31, 2014, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must report the required 
information about such account with respect to 2014 in the first report on the account and on 
an annual basis thereafter.  In the case of an account identified as a U.S. Reportable Account 
after December 31, 2014 and on or before June 30, 2015, the Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution is not required to report information about such account with respect to 2014, but 
must report information about the account on an annual basis thereafter. 
2. If a Preexisting Individual Account is not a High Value Account as of June 30, 2014, but 
becomes a High Value Account as of the last day of 2015 or any subsequent calendar year, the 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution must complete the enhanced review procedures 
described in paragraph D of this section with respect to such account within six months after 
the last day of the calendar year in which the account becomes a High Value Account.  If 
based on this review such account is identified as a U.S. Reportable Account, the Reporting 
Indian Financial Institution must report the required information about such account with 
respect to the year in which it is identified as a U.S. Reportable Account and subsequent years 
on an annual basis, unless the Account Holder ceases to be a Specified U.S. Person. 
3. Once a Reporting Indian Financial Institution applies the enhanced review procedures 
described in paragraph D of this section to a High Value Account, the Reporting Indian 
Financial Institution is not required to re-apply such procedures, other than the relationship 
manager inquiry described in subparagraph D(4) of this section, to the same High Value 
Account in any subsequent year. 
4. If there is a change of circumstances with respect to a High Value Account that results in one 
or more U.S. indicia described in subparagraph B(1) of this section being associated with the 
account, then the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must treat the account as a U.S. 
Reportable Account unless it elects to apply subparagraph B(4) of this section and one of the 
exceptions in such subparagraph applies with respect to that account. 
5. A Reporting Indian Financial Institution must implement procedures to ensure that a 
relationship manager identifies any change in circumstances of an account.  For example, if a 
relationship manager is notified that the Account Holder has a new mailing address in the 
United States, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution is required to treat the new address as 
a change in circumstances and, if it elects to apply subparagraph B(4) of this section, is 
required to obtain the appropriate documentation from the Account Holder. 
F. Preexisting Individual Accounts That Have Been Documented for Certain Other Purposes.  A 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution that has previously obtained documentation from an Account 
Holder to establish the Account Holder’s status as neither a U.S. citizen nor a U.S. resident in order to 
meet its obligations under a qualified intermediary, withholding foreign partnership, or withholding 
foreign trust agreement with the IRS, or to fulfill its obligations under chapter 61 of Title 26 of the 
United States Code, is not required to perform the procedures described in subparagraph B(1) of this 
section with respect to Lower Value Accounts or subparagraphs D(1) through D(3) of this section with 
respect to High Value Accounts. 
III.   
New Individual Accounts.   The following rules and procedures apply for purposes of identifying U.S. 
Reportable Accounts among Financial Accounts held by individuals and opened on or after July 1, 2014 
96 | P a g e 
(“New Individual Accounts”). 
A. Accounts Not Required to Be Reviewed, Identified, or Reported.  Unless the Reporting Indian 
Financial Institution elects otherwise, either with respect to all New Individual Accounts or, separately, 
with respect to any clearly identified group of such accounts, where the implementing rules in India 
provide for such an election, the following New Individual Accounts are not required to be reviewed, 
identified, or reported as U.S. Reportable Accounts: 
1.  
A Depository Account unless the account balance exceeds $50,000 at the end of any calendar 
year or other appropriate reporting period.  
2. A Cash Value Insurance Contract unless the Cash Value exceeds $50,000 at the end of any 
calendar year or other appropriate reporting period.   
B. Other New Individual Accounts.  With respect to New Individual Accounts not described in 
paragraph A of this section, upon account opening (or within 90 days after the end of the calendar year 
in which the account ceases to be described in paragraph A of this section), the Reporting Indian 
Financial Institution must obtain a self-certification, which may be part of the account opening 
documentation, that allows the Reporting Indian Financial Institution to determine whether the Account 
Holder is resident in the United States for tax purposes (for this purpose, a U.S. citizen is considered to 
be resident in the United States for tax purposes, even if the Account Holder is also a tax resident of 
another jurisdiction) and confirm the reasonableness of such self-certification based on the information 
obtained by the Reporting Indian Financial Institution in connection with the opening of the account, 
including any documentation collected pursuant to AML/KYC Procedures. 
1. If the self-certification establishes that the Account Holder is resident in the United States for 
tax purposes, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must treat the account as a U.S. 
Reportable Account and obtain a self-certification that includes the Account Holder’s U.S. 
TIN (which may be an IRS Form W-9 or other similar agreed form). 
2. If there is a change of circumstances with respect to a New Individual Account that causes the 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution to know, or have reason to know, that the original self
certification is incorrect or unreliable, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution cannot rely 
on the original self-certification and must obtain a valid self-certification that establishes 
whether the Account Holder is a U.S. citizen or resident for U.S. tax purposes.  If the 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution is unable to obtain a valid self-certification, the 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution must treat the account as a U.S. Reportable Account. 
IV. Preexisting Entity Accounts.  The following rules and procedures apply for purposes of identifying U.S. 
Reportable Accounts and accounts held by Nonparticipating Financial Institutions among Preexisting 
Accounts held by Entities (“Preexisting Entity Accounts”). 
A. Entity Accounts Not Required to Be Reviewed, Identified or Reported.  Unless the Reporting 
Indian Financial Institution elects otherwise, either with respect to all Preexisting Entity Accounts or, 
separately, with respect to any clearly identified group of such accounts, where the implementing rules 
in India provide for such an election, a Preexisting Entity Account with an account balance or value 
that does not exceed $250,000 as of June 30, 2014, is not required to be reviewed, identified, or 
reported as a U.S. Reportable Account until the account balance or value exceeds $1,000,000.   
B. Entity Accounts Subject to Review.  A Preexisting Entity Account that has an account balance or 
value that exceeds $250,000 as of June 30, 2014, and a Preexisting Entity Account that does not exceed 
$250,000 as of June 30, 2014 but the account balance or value of which exceeds $1,000,000 as of the 
last day of 2015 or any subsequent calendar year, must be reviewed in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in paragraph D of this section.   
C. Entity Accounts With Respect to Which Reporting Is Required.  With respect to Preexisting Entity 
Accounts described in paragraph B of this section, only accounts that are held by one or more Entities 
that are Specified U.S. Persons, or by Passive NFFEs with one or more Controlling Persons who are 
U.S. citizens or residents, shall be treated as U.S. Reportable Accounts.  In addition, accounts held by 
Nonparticipating Financial Institutions shall be treated as accounts for which aggregate payments as 
described in subparagraph 1(b) of Article 4 of the Agreement are reported to the Indian Competent 
Authority. 
D. Review Procedures for Identifying Entity Accounts With Respect to Which Reporting Is 
Required.  For Preexisting Entity Accounts described in paragraph B of this section, the Reporting 
Indian Financial Institution must apply the following review procedures to determine whether the 
account is held by one or more Specified U.S. Persons, by Passive NFFEs with one or more 
Controlling Persons who are U.S. citizens or residents, or by Nonparticipating Financial Institutions: 
1. Determine Whether the Entity Is a Specified U.S. Person. 
a) Review information maintained for regulatory or customer relationship purposes 
(including information collected pursuant to AML/KYC Procedures) to determine 
97 | P a g e 
whether the information indicates that the Account Holder is a U.S. Person.  For this 
purpose, information indicating that the Account Holder is a U.S. Person includes a 
U.S. place of incorporation or organization, or a U.S. address. 
b) If the information indicates that the Account Holder is a U.S. Person, the Reporting 
Indian Financial Institution must treat the account as a U.S. Reportable Account 
unless it obtains a self-certification from the Account Holder (which may be on an 
IRS Form W-8 or W-9, or a similar agreed form), or reasonably determines based on 
information in its possession or that is publicly available, that the Account Holder is 
not a Specified U.S. Person. 
2. Determine Whether a Non-U.S. Entity Is a Financial Institution. 
a) Review information maintained for regulatory or customer relationship purposes 
(including information collected pursuant to AML/KYC Procedures) to determine 
whether the information indicates that the Account Holder is a Financial Institution. 
b) If the information indicates that the Account Holder is a Financial Institution, or the 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution verifies the Account Holder’s Global 
Intermediary Identification Number on the published IRS FFI list, then the account is 
not a U.S. Reportable Account.   
3. Determine Whether a Financial Institution Is a Nonparticipating Financial Institution 
Payments to Which Are Subject to Aggregate Reporting Under Subparagraph 1(b) of 
Article 4 of the Agreement.  
a) Subject to subparagraph D(3)(b) of this section, a Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution may determine that the Account Holder is an Indian Financial Institution 
or other Partner Jurisdiction Financial Institution if the Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution reasonably determines that the Account Holder has such status on the 
basis of the Account Holder’s Global Intermediary Identification Number on the 
published IRS FFI list or other information that is publicly available or in the 
possession of the Reporting Indian Financial Institution, as applicable.  In such case, 
no further review, identification, or reporting is required with respect to the account. 
b) If the Account Holder is an Indian Financial Institution or other Partner Jurisdiction 
Financial Institution treated by the IRS as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution, 
then the account is not a U.S. Reportable Account, but payments to the Account 
Holder must be reported as contemplated in subparagraph 1(b) of Article 4 of the 
Agreement.  
c) If the Account Holder is not an Indian Financial Institution or other Partner 
Jurisdiction Financial Institution, then the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must 
treat the Account Holder as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution payments to 
which are reportable under subparagraph 1(b) of Article 4 of the Agreement, unless 
the Reporting Indian Financial Institution: 
(1) Obtains a self-certification (which may be on an IRS Form W-8 or similar 
agreed form) from the Account Holder that it is a certified deemed
compliant FFI, or an exempt beneficial owner, as those terms are defined in 
relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations; or 
(2) In the case of a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI, 
verifies the Account Holder’s Global Intermediary Identification Number on 
the published IRS FFI list. 
4. Determine Whether an Account Held by an NFFE Is a U.S. Reportable Account.  With 
respect to an Account Holder of a Preexisting Entity Account that is not identified as either a 
U.S. Person or a Financial Institution, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must identify 
(i) whether the Account Holder has Controlling Persons, (ii) whether the Account Holder is a 
Passive NFFE, and (iii) whether any of the Controlling Persons of the Account Holder is a 
U.S. citizen or resident.  In making these determinations the Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution must follow the guidance in subparagraphs D(4)(a) through D(4)(d) of this section 
in the order most appropriate under the circumstances. 
a) For purposes of determining the Controlling Persons of an Account Holder, a 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution may rely on information collected and 
maintained pursuant to AML/KYC Procedures. 
b) For purposes of determining whether the Account Holder is a Passive NFFE, the 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution must obtain a self-certification (which may be 
on an IRS Form W-8 or W-9, or on a similar agreed form) from the Account Holder 
to establish its status, unless it has information in its possession or that is publicly 
98 | P a g e 
available, based on which it can reasonably determine that the Account Holder is an 
Active NFFE. 
c) For purposes of determining whether a Controlling Person of a Passive NFFE is a 
U.S. citizen or resident for tax purposes, a Reporting Indian Financial Institution may 
rely on:  
(1) Information collected and maintained pursuant to AML/KYC Procedures in 
the case of a Preexisting Entity Account held by one or more NFFEs with an 
account balance or value that does not exceed $1,000,000; or  
(2) A self-certification (which may be on an IRS Form W-8 or W-9, or on a 
similar agreed form) from the Account Holder or such Controlling Person in 
the case of a Preexisting Entity Account held by one or more NFFEs with an 
account balance or value that exceeds $1,000,000.  
d) If any Controlling Person of a Passive NFFE is a U.S. citizen or resident, the account 
shall be treated as a U.S. Reportable Account. 
E. Timing of Review and Additional Procedures Applicable to Preexisting Entity Accounts. 
1. Review of Preexisting Entity Accounts with an account balance or value that exceeds 
$250,000 as of June 30, 2014 must be completed by June 30, 2016. 
2. Review of Preexisting Entity Accounts with an account balance or value that does not exceed 
$250,000 as of June 30, 2014, but exceeds $1,000,000 as of December 31 of 2015 or any 
subsequent year, must be completed within six months after the last day of the calendar year 
in which the account balance or value exceeds $1,000,000. 
3. If there is a change of circumstances with respect to a Preexisting Entity Account that causes 
the Reporting Indian Financial Institution to know, or have reason to know, that the self
certification or other documentation associated with an account is incorrect or unreliable, the 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution must redetermine the status of the account in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph D of this section. 
V. New Entity Accounts.   The following rules and procedures apply for purposes of identifying U.S. 
Reportable Accounts and accounts held by Nonparticipating Financial Institutions among Financial 
Accounts held by Entities and opened on or after July 1, 2014 (“New Entity Accounts”).   
A. Entity Accounts Not Required to Be Reviewed, Identified or Reported.  Unless the Reporting 
Indian Financial Institution elects otherwise, either with respect to all New Entity Accounts or, 
separately, with respect to any clearly identified group of such accounts, where the implementing rules 
in India provide for such election, a credit card account or a revolving credit facility treated as a New 
Entity Account is not required to be reviewed, identified, or reported, provided that the Reporting 
Indian Financial Institution maintaining such account implements policies and procedures to prevent an 
account balance owed to the Account Holder that exceeds $50,000. 
B. Other New Entity Accounts.  With respect to New Entity Accounts not described in paragraph A of 
this section, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must determine whether the Account Holder is:  
(i) a Specified U.S. Person; (ii) an Indian Financial Institution or other Partner Jurisdiction Financial 
Institution; (iii) a participating FFI, a deemed-compliant FFI, or an exempt beneficial owner, as those 
terms are defined in relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations; or (iv) an Active NFFE or Passive NFFE.   
1. Subject to subparagraph B(2) of this section, a Reporting Indian Financial Institution may 
determine that the Account Holder is an Active NFFE, an Indian Financial Institution, or other 
Partner Jurisdiction Financial Institution if the Reporting Indian Financial Institution 
reasonably determines that the Account Holder has such status on the basis of the Account 
Holder’s Global Intermediary Identification Number or other information that is publicly 
available or in the possession of the Reporting Indian Financial Institution, as applicable.   
2. 
If the Account Holder is an Indian Financial Institution or other Partner Jurisdiction 
Financial Institution treated by the IRS as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution, then the 
account is not a U.S. Reportable Account, but payments to the Account Holder must be 
reported as contemplated in subparagraph 1(b) of Article 4 of the Agreement. 
3. 
In all other cases, a Reporting Indian Financial Institution must obtain a self
certification from the Account Holder to establish the Account Holder’s status.  Based on the 
self-certification, the following rules apply: 
a) 
If the Account Holder is a Specified U.S. Person, the Reporting Indian 
Financial Institution must treat the account as a U.S. Reportable Account. 
b) 
If the Account Holder is a Passive NFFE, the Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution must identify the Controlling Persons as determined under AML/KYC 
99 | P a g e 
Procedures, and must determine whether any such person is a U.S. citizen or resident 
on the basis of a self-certification from the Account Holder or such person.  If any 
such person is a U.S. citizen or resident, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution 
must treat the account as a U.S. Reportable Account. 
c) 
If the Account Holder is:  (i) a U.S. Person that is not a Specified U.S. 
Person; (ii) subject to subparagraph B(3)(d) of this section, an Indian Financial 
Institution or other Partner Jurisdiction Financial Institution; (iii) a participating FFI, 
a deemed-compliant FFI, or an exempt beneficial owner, as those terms are defined 
in relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations; (iv) an Active NFFE; or (v) a Passive NFFE 
none of the Controlling Persons of which is a U.S. citizen or resident, then the 
account is not a U.S. Reportable Account, and no reporting is required with respect to 
the account. 
d) 
If the Account Holder is a Nonparticipating Financial Institution (including 
an Indian Financial Institution or other Partner Jurisdiction Financial Institution 
treated by the IRS as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution), then the account is not 
a U.S. Reportable Account, but payments to the Account Holder must be reported as 
contemplated in subparagraph 1(b) of Article 4 of the Agreement. 
VI. 
Special Rules and Definitions.  The following additional rules and definitions apply in implementing 
the due diligence procedures described above: 
A. 
Reliance on Self-Certifications and Documentary Evidence.  A Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution may not rely on a self-certification or documentary evidence if the Reporting Indian 
Financial Institution knows or has reason to know that the self-certification or documentary evidence is 
incorrect or unreliable. 
B. 
Definitions.  The following definitions apply for purposes of this Annex I. 
1. AML/KYC Procedures.  “AML/KYC Procedures” means the customer due diligence 
procedures of a Reporting Indian Financial Institution pursuant to the anti-money 
laundering or similar requirements of India to which such Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution is subject.   
2. NFFE.  An “NFFE” means any Non-U.S. Entity that is not an FFI as defined in relevant 
U.S. Treasury Regulations or is an Entity described in subparagraph B(4)(j) of this 
section, and also includes any Non-U.S. Entity that is established in India or another 
Partner Jurisdiction and that is not a Financial Institution. 
3. Passive NFFE.  A “Passive NFFE” means any NFFE that is not (i) an Active NFFE, or 
(ii) a withholding foreign partnership or withholding foreign trust pursuant to relevant 
U.S. Treasury Regulations. 
4. Active NFFE.  An “Active NFFE” means any NFFE that meets any of the following 
criteria: 
a) Less than 50 percent of the NFFE’s gross income for the preceding calendar year 
or other appropriate reporting period is passive income and less than 50 percent 
of the assets held by the NFFE during the preceding calendar year or other 
appropriate reporting period are assets that produce or are held for the production 
of passive income; 
b) The stock of the NFFE is regularly traded on an established securities market or 
the NFFE is a Related Entity of an Entity the stock of which is regularly traded 
on an established securities market; 
c) The NFFE is organized in a U.S. Territory and all of the owners of the payee are 
bona fide residents of that U.S. Territory; 
d) The NFFE is a government (other than the U.S. government), a political 
subdivision of such government (which, for the avoidance of doubt, includes a 
state, province, county, or municipality), or a public body performing a function 
of such government or a political subdivision thereof, a government of a U.S. 
Territory, an international organization, a non-U.S. central bank of issue, or an 
Entity wholly owned by one or more of the foregoing 
e) Substantially all of the activities of the NFFE consist of holding (in whole or in 
part) the outstanding stock of, or providing financing and services to, one or 
more subsidiaries that engage in trades or businesses other than the business of a 
100 | P a g e 
Financial Institution, except that an entity shall not qualify for NFFE status if the 
entity functions (or holds itself out) as an investment fund, such as a private 
equity fund, venture capital fund, leveraged buyout fund, or any investment 
vehicle whose purpose is to acquire or fund companies and then hold interests in 
those companies as capital assets for investment purposes; 
f) 
The NFFE is not yet operating a business and has no prior operating history, but 
is investing capital into assets with the intent to operate a business other than that 
of a Financial Institution, provided that the NFFE shall not qualify for this 
exception after the date that is 24 months after the date of the initial organization 
of the NFFE; 
g) The NFFE was not a Financial Institution in the past five years, and is in the 
process of liquidating its assets or is reorganizing with the intent to continue or 
recommence operations in a business other than that of a Financial Institution; 
h) The NFFE primarily engages in financing and hedging transactions with, or for, 
Related Entities that are not Financial Institutions, and does not provide 
financing or hedging services to any Entity that is not a Related Entity, provided 
that the group of any such Related Entities is primarily engaged in a business 
other than that of a Financial Institution; 
i) 
j) 
The NFFE is an “excepted NFFE” as described in relevant U.S. Treasury 
Regulations; or 
The NFFE meets all of the following requirements: 
i. 
It is established and operated in its jurisdiction of residence exclusively 
for religious, charitable, scientific, artistic, cultural, athletic, or 
educational purposes; or it is established and operated in its jurisdiction of 
residence and it is a professional organization, business league, chamber 
of commerce, labor organization, agricultural or horticultural 
organization, civic league or an organization operated exclusively for the 
promotion of social welfare; 
ii. 
iii. 
It is exempt from income tax in its jurisdiction of residence;  
It has no shareholders or members who have a proprietary or beneficial 
interest in its income or assets; 
iv. The applicable laws of the NFFE’s jurisdiction of residence or the 
NFFE’s formation documents do not permit any income or assets of the 
NFFE to be distributed to, or applied for the benefit of, a private person or 
non-charitable Entity other than pursuant to the conduct of the NFFE’s 
charitable activities, or as payment of reasonable compensation for 
services rendered, or as payment representing the fair market value of 
property which the NFFE has purchased; and  
v. The applicable laws of the NFFE’s jurisdiction of residence or the 
NFFE’s formation documents require that, upon the NFFE’s liquidation or 
dissolution, all of its assets be distributed to a governmental entity or 
other non-profit organization, or escheat to the government of the NFFE’s 
jurisdiction of residence or any political subdivision thereof. 
5. Preexisting Account.  A “Preexisting Account” means a Financial Account maintained 
by a Reporting Financial Institution as of June 30, 2014. 
C. 
Account Balance Aggregation and Currency Translation Rules. 
1. 
Aggregation of Individual Accounts.  For purposes of determining the aggregate 
balance or value of Financial Accounts held by an individual, a Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution is required to aggregate all Financial Accounts maintained by the Reporting Indian 
Financial Institution, or by a Related Entity, but only to the extent that the Reporting Indian 
Financial Institution’s computerized systems link the Financial Accounts by reference to a 
data element such as client number or taxpayer identification number, and allow account 
balances or values to be aggregated.  Each holder of a jointly held Financial Account shall be 
attributed the entire balance or value of the jointly held Financial Account for purposes of 
applying the aggregation requirements described in this paragraph 1. 
2. 
Aggregation of Entity Accounts.  For purposes of determining the aggregate 
balance or value of Financial Accounts held by an Entity, a Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution is required to take into account all Financial Accounts that are maintained by the 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution, or by a Related Entity, but only to the extent that the 
Reporting Indian Financial Institution’s computerized systems link the Financial Accounts by 
101 | P a g e 
reference to a data element such as client number or taxpayer identification number, and allow 
account balances or values to be aggregated. 
3. 
Special Aggregation Rule Applicable to Relationship Managers.  For purposes of 
determining the aggregate balance or value of Financial Accounts held by a person to 
determine whether a Financial Account is a High Value Account, a Reporting Indian Financial 
Institution is also required, in the case of any Financial Accounts that a relationship manager 
knows, or has reason to know, are directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or established 
(other than in a fiduciary capacity) by the same person, to aggregate all such accounts. 
4. 
Currency Translation Rule.  For purposes of determining the balance or value of 
Financial Accounts denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, a Reporting Indian 
Financial Institution must convert the U.S. dollar threshold amounts described in this Annex I 
into such currency using a published spot rate determined as of the last day of the calendar 
year preceding the year in which the Reporting Indian Financial Institution is determining the 
balance or value. 
D. 
Documentary Evidence.  For purposes of this Annex I, acceptable documentary evidence 
includes any of the following: 
1. 
A certificate of residence issued by an authorized government body (for example, a 
government or agency thereof, or a municipality) of the jurisdiction in which the payee claims 
to be a resident. 
2. 
With respect to an individual, any valid identification issued by an authorized 
government body (for example, a government or agency thereof, or a municipality), that 
includes the individual’s name and is typically used for identification purposes. 
3. 
With respect to an Entity, any official documentation issued by an authorized 
government body (for example, a government or agency thereof, or a municipality) that 
includes the name of the Entity and either the address of its principal office in the jurisdiction 
(or U.S. Territory) in which it claims to be a resident or the jurisdiction (or U.S. Territory) in 
which the Entity was incorporated or organized. 
4. 
With respect to a Financial Account maintained in a jurisdiction with anti-money 
laundering rules that have been approved by the IRS in connection with a QI agreement (as 
described in relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations), any of the documents, other than a Form W
8 or W-9, referenced in the jurisdiction’s attachment to the QI agreement for identifying 
individuals or Entities. 
5. 
Any financial statement, third-party credit report, bankruptcy filing, or U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission report. 
E. 
Alternative Procedures for Financial Accounts Held by Individual Beneficiaries of a 
Cash Value Insurance Contract.  A Reporting Indian Financial Institution may presume that an 
individual beneficiary (other than the owner) of a Cash Value Insurance Contract receiving a death 
benefit is not a Specified U.S. Person and may treat such Financial Account as other than a U.S. 
Reportable Account unless the Reporting Indian Financial Institution has actual knowledge, or reason 
to know, that the beneficiary is a Specified U.S. Person.  A Reporting Indian Financial Institution has 
reason to know that a beneficiary of a Cash Value Insurance Contract is a Specified U.S. Person if the 
information collected by the Reporting Indian Financial Institution and associated with the beneficiary 
contains U.S. indicia as described in subparagraph B(1) of section II of this Annex I.  If a Reporting 
Indian Financial Institution has actual knowledge, or reason to know, that the beneficiary is a Specified 
U.S. Person, the Reporting Indian Financial Institution must follow the procedures in subparagraph 
B(3) of section II of this Annex I. 
F. 
Reliance on Third Parties.  Regardless of whether an election is made under paragraph C of 
section I of this Annex I, India may permit Reporting Indian Financial Institutions to rely on due 
diligence procedures performed by third parties, to the extent provided in relevant U.S. Treasury 
Regulations. 
G.  
Alternative Procedures for New Accounts Opened Prior to Entry Into Force of this 
Agreement.   
1. 
Applicability.  If India has provided a written notice to the United States prior to 
entry into force of this Agreement that, as of July 1, 2014, India lacked the legal authority to 
require Reporting Indian Financial Institutions either: (i) to require Account Holders of New 
Individual Accounts to provide the self-certification specified in section III of this Annex I, or 
(ii) to perform all the due diligence procedures related to New Entity Accounts specified in 
section V of this Annex I, then Reporting Indian Financial Institutions may apply the 
alternative procedures described in subparagraph G(2) of this section, as applicable, to such 
102 | P a g e 
New Accounts, in lieu of the procedures otherwise required under this Annex I.  The 
alternative procedures described in subparagraph G(2) of this section shall be available only 
for those New Individual Accounts or New Entity Accounts, as applicable, opened prior to the 
earlier of: (i) the date India has the ability to compel Reporting Indian Financial Institutions to 
comply with the due diligence procedures described in section III or section V of this Annex I, 
as applicable, which date India shall inform the United States of in writing by the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement, or (ii) the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  If the 
alternative procedures for New Entity Accounts opened on or after July 1, 2014, and before 
January 1, 2015, described in paragraph H of this section are applied with respect to all New 
Entity Accounts or a clearly identified group of such accounts, the alternative procedures 
described in this paragraph G may not be applied with respect to such New Entity Accounts.  
For all other New Accounts, Reporting Indian Financial Institutions must apply the due 
diligence procedures described in section III or section V of this Annex I, as applicable, to 
determine if the account is a U.S. Reportable Account or an account held by a 
Nonparticipating Financial Institution. 
2. 
Alternative Procedures.   
a) 
Within one year after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, Reporting Indian 
Financial Institutions must: (i) with respect to a New Individual Account described in 
subparagraph G(1) of this section, request the self-certification specified in section III of this 
Annex I and confirm the reasonableness of such self-certification consistent with the 
procedures described in section III of this Annex I, and (ii) with respect to a New Entity 
Account described in subparagraph G(1) of this section, perform the due diligence procedures 
specified in section V of this Annex I and request information as necessary to document the 
account, including any self-certification, required by section V of this Annex I.    
b) 
India must report on any New Account that is identified pursuant to subparagraph 
G(2)(a) of this section as a U.S. Reportable Account or as an account held by a 
Nonparticipating Financial Institution, as applicable, by the date that is the later of: (i) 
September 30 next following the date that the account is identified as a U.S. Reportable 
Account or as an account held by a Nonparticipating Financial Institution, as applicable, or (ii) 
90 days after the account is identified as a U.S. Reportable Account or as an account held by a 
Nonparticipating Financial Institution, as applicable.  The information required to be reported 
with respect to such a New Account is any information that would have been reportable under 
this Agreement if the New Account had been identified as a U.S. Reportable Account or as an 
account held by a Nonparticipating Financial Institution, as applicable, as of the date the 
account was opened. 
c) 
By the date that is one year after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, 
Reporting Indian Financial Institutions must close any New Account described in 
subparagraph G(1) of this section for which it was unable to collect the required self
certification or other documentation pursuant to the procedures described in subparagraph 
G(2)(a) of this section.  In addition, by the date that is one year after the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement, Reporting Indian Financial Institutions must: (i) with respect to such 
closed accounts that prior to such closure were New Individual Accounts (without regard to 
whether such accounts were High Value Accounts), perform the due diligence procedures 
specified in paragraph D of section II of this Annex I, or (ii) with respect to such closed 
accounts that prior to such closure were New Entity Accounts, perform the due diligence 
procedures specified in section IV of this Annex I.  
d) 
India must report on any closed account that is identified pursuant to subparagraph 
G(2)(c) of this section as a U.S. Reportable Account or as an account held by a 
Nonparticipating Financial Institution, as applicable, by the date that is the later of: (i) 
September 30 next following the date that the account is identified as a U.S. Reportable 
Account or as an account held by a Nonparticipating Financial Institution, as applicable, or (ii) 
90 days after the account is identified as a U.S. Reportable Account or as an account held by a 
Nonparticipating Financial Institution, as applicable.  The information required to be reported 
for such a closed account is any information that would have been reportable under this 
Agreement if the account had been identified as a U.S. Reportable Account or as an account 
held by a Nonparticipating Financial Institution, as applicable, as of the date the account was 
opened.   
H. 
Alternative Procedures for New Entity Accounts Opened on or after July 1, 2014, and 
before January 1, 2015.  For New Entity Accounts opened on or after July 1, 2014, and before 
January 1, 2015, either with respect to all New Entity Accounts or, separately, with respect to any 
103 | P a g e 
clearly identified group of such accounts, India may permit Reporting Indian Financial Institutions to 
treat such accounts as Preexisting Entity Accounts and apply the due diligence procedures related to 
Preexisting Entity Accounts specified in section IV of this Annex I in lieu of the due diligence 
procedures specified in section V of this Annex I.  In this case, the due diligence procedures of section 
IV of this Annex I must be applied without regard to the account balance or value threshold specified in 
paragraph A of section IV of this Annex I. 
Annex II 
The following Entities shall be treated as exempt beneficial owners or deemed-compliant FFIs, as the case may 
be, and the following accounts are excluded from the definition of Financial Accounts. 
This Annex II may be modified by a mutual written decision entered into between the Competent Authorities of 
India and the United States:  (1) to include additional Entities and accounts that present a low risk of being used 
by U.S. Persons to evade U.S. tax and that have similar characteristics to the Entities and accounts described in 
this Annex II as of the date of signature of the Agreement; or (2) to remove Entities and accounts that, due to 
changes in circumstances, no longer present a low risk of being used by U.S. Persons to evade U.S. tax.  Any 
such addition or removal shall be effective on the date of signature of the mutual decision, unless otherwise 
provided therein.  Procedures for reaching such a mutual decision may be included in the mutual agreement or 
arrangement described in paragraph 6 of Article 3 of the Agreement. 
I. 
Exempt Beneficial Owners other than Funds.  The following Entities shall be treated as Non-Reporting 
Indian Financial Institutions and as exempt beneficial owners for purposes of sections 1471 and 1472 of the 
U.S. Internal Revenue Code, other than with respect to a payment that is derived from an obligation held in 
connection with a commercial financial activity of a type engaged in by a Specified Insurance Company, 
Custodial Institution, or Depository Institution. 
A. Governmental Entity.  The government of India, any political subdivision of India (which, for the 
avoidance of doubt, includes a state, province, county, or municipality), or any wholly owned agency 
or instrumentality of India, board, corporation, authority or any other body established or constituted 
under an act of the Government of India or of its political subdivisions or any one or more of the 
foregoing (each, an “Indian Governmental Entity”).  This category is comprised of the integral parts, 
controlled entities, and political subdivisions of India.  
1. An integral part of India means any person, organization, agency, bureau, fund, instrumentality, or 
other body, however designated, that constitutes a governing authority of India.  The net earnings 
of the governing authority must be credited to its own account or to other accounts of India, with 
no portion inuring to the benefit of any private person.  An integral part does not include any 
individual who is a sovereign, official, or administrator acting in a private or personal capacity.   
104 | P a g e 
2. A controlled entity means an Entity that is separate in form from India or that otherwise constitutes 
a separate juridical entity, provided that: 
a) The Entity is wholly owned and controlled by one or more Indian Governmental Entities 
directly or through one or more controlled entities;  
b) The Entity’s net earnings are credited to its own account or to the accounts of one or more 
Indian Governmental Entities, with no portion of its income inuring to the benefit of any 
private person; and  
c) The Entity’s assets vest in one or more Indian Governmental Entities upon dissolution.  
3. Income does not inure to the benefit of private persons if such persons are the intended 
beneficiaries of a governmental program, and the program activities are performed for the general 
public with respect to the common welfare or relate to the administration of some phase of 
government.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, income is considered to inure to the benefit 
of private persons if the income is derived from the use of a governmental entity to conduct a 
commercial business, such as a commercial banking business, that provides financial services to 
private persons. 
B. International Organization.  
Any international organization or wholly owned agency or 
instrumentality thereof.  This category includes any intergovernmental organization (including a 
supranational organization) (1) that is comprised primarily of non-U.S. governments; (2) that has in 
effect a headquarters agreement with India; and (3) the income of which does not inure to the benefit of 
private persons. 
C. Central Bank.  An institution that is by law or government sanction the principal authority, other than 
the government of India itself, issuing instruments intended to circulate as currency.  Such an 
institution may include an instrumentality that is separate from the government of India, whether or not 
owned in whole or in part by India. 
II. 
Funds that Qualify as Exempt Beneficial Owners.  The following Entities shall be treated as Non
Reporting Indian Financial Institutions and as exempt beneficial owners for purposes of sections 1471 and 
1472 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. 
A. Treaty-Qualified Retirement Fund.  A fund established in India, provided that the fund is entitled to 
benefits under an income tax treaty between India and the United States on income that it derives from 
sources within the United States (or would be entitled to such benefits if it derived any such income) as 
a resident of India that satisfies any applicable limitation on benefits requirement, and is operated 
principally to administer or provide pension or retirement benefits. 
B. Broad Participation Retirement Fund.  A fund established in India to provide retirement, disability, 
or death benefits, or any combination thereof, to beneficiaries that are current or former employees (or 
persons designated by such employees) of one or more employers in consideration for services 
rendered, provided that the fund: 
1. Does not have a single beneficiary with a right to more than five percent of the fund’s assets;  
2. Is subject to government regulation and provides annual information reporting about its 
beneficiaries to the relevant tax authorities in India; and  
3. Satisfies at least one of the following requirements:  
a) The fund is generally exempt from tax in India on investment income under the laws of India 
due to its status as a retirement or pension plan;  
b) The fund receives at least 50 percent of its total contributions (other than transfers of assets 
from other plans described in paragraphs A through D of this section or from retirement and 
pension accounts described in subparagraph A(1) of section V of this Annex II) from the 
sponsoring employers;  
c) Distributions or withdrawals from the fund are allowed only upon the occurrence of specified 
events related to retirement, disability, or death (except rollover distributions to other 
retirement funds described in paragraphs A through D of this section or retirement and 
pension accounts described in subparagraph A(1) of section V of this Annex II), or penalties 
apply to distributions or withdrawals made before such specified events; or 
d) Contributions (other than certain permitted make-up contributions) by employees to the fund 
are limited by reference to earned income of the employee or may not exceed $50,000 
annually, applying the rules set forth in Annex I for account aggregation and currency 
translation. 
C. Narrow Participation Retirement Fund.  A fund established in India to provide retirement, 
disability, or death benefits to beneficiaries that are current or former employees (or persons designated 
by such employees) of one or more employers in consideration for services rendered, provided that: 
1. The fund has fewer than 50 participants;  
105 | P a g e 
2. The fund is sponsored by one or more employers that are not Investment Entities or Passive 
NFFEs;  
3. The employee and employer contributions to the fund (other than transfers of assets from treaty
qualified retirement funds described in paragraph A of this section or retirement and pension 
accounts described in subparagraph A(1) of section V of this Annex II) are limited by reference to 
earned income and compensation of the employee, respectively;  
4. Participants that are not residents of India are not entitled to more than 20 percent of the fund’s 
assets; and  
5. The fund is subject to government regulation and provides annual information reporting about its 
beneficiaries to the relevant tax authorities in India. 
D. Pension Fund of an Exempt Beneficial Owner.  A fund established in India by an exempt beneficial 
owner to provide retirement, disability, or death benefits to beneficiaries or participants that are current 
or former employees of the exempt beneficial owner (or persons designated by such employees), or that 
are not current or former employees, if the benefits provided to such beneficiaries or participants are in 
consideration of personal services performed for the exempt beneficial owner. 
E. Investment Entity Wholly Owned by Exempt Beneficial Owners.  An Entity that is an Indian 
Financial Institution solely because it is an Investment Entity, provided that each direct holder of an 
Equity Interest in the Entity is an exempt beneficial owner, and each direct holder of a debt interest in 
such Entity is either a Depository Institution (with respect to a loan made to such Entity) or an exempt 
beneficial owner. 
F. Regimental Fund or Non-public Fund of the Armed Forces.  A fund established in India as a 
regimental fund or non-public fund by the armed forces of the Union of India for the welfare of the 
current and former members of the armed forces and whose income is exempt from tax under section 
10(23AA) of the Indian Income-tax Act of 1961. 
G.  Employees’ State Insurance Fund.  A fund established in India as an Employees’ State Insurance 
Fund under the provisions of the Employees’ State Insurance Act of 1948, to provide medical 
expenses of low-income factory workers in India.   
H. Gratuity Funds.  A fund established in India under the Payment of Gratuity Act of 1972, to provide 
for the payment of a gratuity to certain types of employees (e.g., factory and mining workers) of an 
Indian employer specified in the Payment of Gratuity Act of 1972. 
I. 
Provident Fund.  A fund established in India under the Provident Fund Act of 1952 or the Employees’ 
Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Act of 1952 to provide current and former employees of Indian 
employers retirement benefits in consideration for services rendered, provided that fund: 
1. Does not have a single beneficiary with a right to more than five percent of the fund’s assets;  
2. Is subject to government regulation and provides annual information reporting about its 
beneficiaries to the relevant tax authorities in India;  
3. The fund is generally exempt from tax in India on investment income under the laws of India due 
to its status as a Provident Fund;  and 
4. Contributions (other than certain permitted make-up contributions) by employees to the fund are 
limited by reference to earned income of the employee or may not exceed $50,000 annually, 
applying the rules set forth in Annex I for account aggregation and currency translation. 
III. 
Small or Limited Scope Financial Institutions that Qualify as Deemed-Compliant FFIs. The following 
Financial Institutions are Non-Reporting Indian Financial Institutions that shall be treated as deemed
compliant FFIs for purposes of section 1471 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.  
A. Financial Institution with a Local Client Base.  A Financial Institution satisfying the following 
requirements: 
1. The Financial Institution must be licensed and regulated as a financial institution under the laws of 
India;   
2. The Financial Institution must have no fixed place of business outside of India.  For this purpose, a 
fixed place of business does not include a location that is not advertised to the public and from 
which the Financial Institution performs solely administrative support functions; 
3. The Financial Institution must not solicit customers or Account Holders outside India.  For this 
purpose, a Financial Institution shall not be considered to have solicited customers or Account 
Holders outside India merely because the Financial Institution (a) operates a website, provided that 
the website does not specifically indicate that the Financial Institution provides Financial Accounts 
or services to nonresidents, and does not otherwise target or solicit U.S. customers or Account 
Holders, or (b) advertises in print media or on a radio or television station that is distributed or 
aired primarily within India but is also incidentally distributed or aired in other countries, provided 
that the advertisement does not specifically indicate that the Financial Institution provides 
106 | P a g e 
Financial Accounts or services to nonresidents, and does not otherwise target or solicit U.S. 
customers or Account Holders;  
4. The Financial Institution must be required under the laws of India to identify resident Account 
Holders for purposes of either information reporting or withholding of tax with respect to Financial 
Accounts held by residents or for purposes of satisfying India’s AML due diligence requirements;  
5. At least 98 percent of the Financial Accounts by value maintained by the Financial Institution must 
be held by residents (including residents that are Entities) of India;   
6. Beginning on or before July 1, 2014, the Financial Institution must have policies and procedures, 
consistent with those set forth in Annex I, to prevent the Financial Institution from providing a 
Financial Account to any Nonparticipating Financial Institution and to monitor whether the 
Financial Institution opens or maintains a Financial Account for any Specified U.S. Person who is 
not a resident of India (including a U.S. Person that was a resident of India when the Financial 
Account was opened but subsequently ceases to be a resident of India) or any Passive NFFE with 
Controlling Persons who are U.S. residents or U.S. citizens who are not residents of India;   
7. Such policies and procedures must provide that if any Financial Account held by a Specified U.S. 
Person who is not a resident of India or by a Passive NFFE with Controlling Persons who are U.S. 
residents or U.S. citizens who are not residents of India is identified, the Financial Institution must 
report such Financial Account as would be required if the Financial Institution were a Reporting 
Indian Financial Institution (including by following the applicable registration requirements on the 
IRS FATCA registration website) or close such Financial Account; 
8. With respect to a Preexisting Account held by an individual who is not a resident of India or by an 
Entity, the Financial Institution must review those Preexisting Accounts in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Annex I applicable to Preexisting Accounts to identify any U.S. Reportable 
Account or Financial Account held by a Nonparticipating Financial Institution, and must report 
such Financial Account as would be required if the Financial Institution were a Reporting Indian 
Financial Institution (including by following the applicable registration requirements on the IRS 
FATCA registration website) or close such Financial Account; 
9. Each Related Entity of the Financial Institution that is a Financial Institution must be 
incorporated or organized in India and, with the exception of any Related Entity that is a 
retirement fund described in paragraphs A through D of section II of this Annex II, satisfy the 
requirements set forth in this paragraph A; and  
10. The Financial Institution must not have policies or practices that discriminate against opening or 
maintaining Financial Accounts for individuals who are Specified U.S. Persons and residents of 
India. 
B. Local Bank.  A Financial Institution satisfying the following requirements: 
1. The Financial Institution operates solely as (and is licensed and regulated under the laws of India 
as) (a) a bank or (b) a credit union or similar cooperative credit organization that is operated 
without profit; 
2. The Financial Institution’s business consists primarily of receiving deposits from and making loans 
to, with respect to a bank, unrelated retail customers and, with respect to a credit union or similar 
cooperative credit organization, members, provided that no member has a greater than five percent 
interest in such credit union or cooperative credit organization; 
3. The Financial Institution satisfies the requirements set forth in subparagraphs A(2) and A(3) of this 
section, provided that, in addition to the limitations on the website described in subparagraph A(3) 
of this section, the website does not permit the opening of a Financial Account; 
4. The Financial Institution does not have more than $175 million in assets on its balance sheet, and 
the Financial Institution and any Related Entities, taken together, do not have more than $500 
million in total assets on their consolidated or combined balance sheets; and 
5. Any Related Entity must be incorporated or organized in India, and any Related Entity that is a 
Financial Institution, with the exception of any Related Entity that is a retirement fund described 
in paragraphs A through D of section II of this Annex II or a Financial Institution with only low
value accounts described in paragraph C of this section, must satisfy the requirements set forth in 
this paragraph B.   
C. Financial Institution with Only Low-Value Accounts.  An Indian Financial Institution satisfying the 
following requirements: 
1. The Financial Institution is not an Investment Entity; 
2. No Financial Account maintained by the Financial Institution or any Related Entity has a balance 
or value in excess of $50,000, applying the rules set forth in Annex I for account aggregation and 
currency translation; and   
107 | P a g e 
3. The Financial Institution does not have more than $50 million in assets on its balance sheet, and 
the Financial Institution and any Related Entities, taken together, do not have more than $50 
million in total assets on their consolidated or combined balance sheets.   
D. Qualified Credit Card Issuer.  An Indian Financial Institution satisfying the following requirements: 
1. The Financial Institution is a Financial Institution solely because it is an issuer of credit cards that 
accepts deposits only when a customer makes a payment in excess of a balance due with respect to 
the card and the overpayment is not immediately returned to the customer; and 
2. Beginning on or before July 1, 2014, the Financial Institution implements policies and procedures 
to either prevent a customer deposit in excess of $50,000, or to ensure that any customer deposit in 
excess of $50,000, in each case applying the rules set forth in Annex I for account aggregation 
and currency translation, is refunded to the customer within 60 days.  For this purpose, a customer 
deposit does not refer to credit balances to the extent of disputed charges but does include credit 
balances resulting from merchandise returns. 
IV. 
Investment Entities that Qualify as Deemed-Compliant FFIs and Other Special Rules.  The Financial 
Institutions described in paragraphs A through E of this section are Non-Reporting Indian Financial 
Institutions that shall be treated as deemed-compliant FFIs for purposes of section 1471 of the U.S. Internal 
Revenue Code.  In addition, paragraph F of this section provides special rules applicable to an Investment 
Entity.    
A. Trustee-Documented Trust.  A trust established under the laws of India to the extent that the trustee 
of the trust is a Reporting U.S. Financial Institution, Reporting Model 1 FFI, or Participating FFI and 
reports all information required to be reported pursuant to the Agreement with respect to all U.S. 
Reportable Accounts of the trust. 
B. Sponsored Investment Entity and Controlled Foreign Corporation.  A Financial Institution 
described in subparagraph B(1) or B(2) of this section having a sponsoring entity that complies with 
the requirements of subparagraph B(3) of this section.   
1. A Financial Institution is a sponsored investment entity if (a) it is an Investment Entity established 
in India that is not a qualified intermediary, withholding foreign partnership, or withholding 
foreign trust pursuant to relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations; and (b) an Entity has agreed with the 
Financial Institution to act as a sponsoring entity for the Financial Institution.   
2. A Financial Institution is a sponsored controlled foreign corporation if (a) the Financial Institution 
is a controlled foreign corporation1 organized under the laws of India that is not a qualified 
intermediary, withholding foreign partnership, or withholding foreign trust pursuant to relevant 
U.S. Treasury Regulations; (b) the Financial Institution is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by 
a Reporting U.S. Financial Institution that agrees to act, or requires an affiliate of the Financial 
Institution to act, as a sponsoring entity for the Financial Institution; and (c) the Financial 
Institution shares a common electronic account system with the sponsoring entity that enables the 
sponsoring entity to identify all Account Holders and payees of the Financial Institution and to 
access all account and customer information maintained by the Financial Institution including, but 
not limited to, customer identification information, customer documentation, account balance, and 
all payments made to the Account Holder or payee.  
3. The sponsoring entity complies with the following requirements:   
a) The sponsoring entity is authorized to act on behalf of the Financial Institution (such as a fund 
manager, trustee, corporate director, or managing partner) to fulfill applicable registration 
requirements on the IRS FATCA registration website;  
b) The sponsoring entity has registered as a sponsoring entity with the IRS on the IRS FATCA 
registration website;  
c) If the sponsoring entity identifies any U.S. Reportable Accounts with respect to the Financial 
Institution, the sponsoring entity registers the Financial Institution pursuant to applicable 
registration requirements on the IRS FATCA registration website on or before the later of 
December 31, 2015 and the date that is 90 days after such a U.S. Reportable Account is first 
identified;  
1 A “controlled foreign corporation” means any foreign corporation if more than 50 percent of the total 
combined voting power of all classes of stock of such corporation entitled to vote, or the total value of the 
stock of such corporation, is owned, or is considered as owned, by “United States shareholders” on any day 
during the taxable year of such foreign corporation.  The term a “United States shareholder” means, with 
respect to any foreign corporation, a United States person who owns, or is considered as owning, 10 percent 
or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of such foreign corporation. 
108 | P a g e 
d) The sponsoring entity agrees to perform, on behalf of the Financial Institution, all due 
diligence, withholding, reporting, and other requirements that the Financial Institution would 
have been required to perform if it were a Reporting Indian Financial Institution;  
e) The sponsoring entity identifies the Financial Institution and includes the identifying number 
of the Financial Institution (obtained by following applicable registration requirements on the 
IRS FATCA registration website) in all reporting completed on the Financial Institution’s 
behalf; and  
f) 
The sponsoring entity has not had its status as a sponsor revoked. 
C. Sponsored, Closely Held Investment Vehicle.  An Indian Financial Institution satisfying the 
following requirements: 
1. The Financial Institution is a Financial Institution solely because it is an Investment Entity and is 
not a qualified intermediary, withholding foreign partnership, or withholding foreign trust pursuant 
to relevant U.S. Treasury Regulations;  
2. The sponsoring entity is a Reporting U.S. Financial Institution, Reporting Model 1 FFI, or 
Participating FFI, is authorized to act on behalf of the Financial Institution (such as a professional 
manager, trustee, or managing partner), and agrees to perform, on behalf of the Financial 
Institution, all due diligence, withholding, reporting, and other requirements that the Financial 
Institution would have been required to perform if it were a Reporting Indian Financial Institution;  
3. The Financial Institution does not hold itself out as an investment vehicle for unrelated parties;   
4. Twenty or fewer individuals own all of the debt interests and Equity Interests in the Financial 
Institution (disregarding debt interests owned by Participating FFIs and deemed-compliant FFIs 
and Equity Interests owned by an Entity if that Entity owns 100 percent of the Equity Interests in 
the Financial Institution and is itself a sponsored Financial Institution described in this paragraph 
C); and 
5. The sponsoring entity complies with the following requirements:   
a) The sponsoring entity has registered as a sponsoring entity with the IRS on the IRS FATCA 
registration website;  
b) The sponsoring entity agrees to perform, on behalf of the Financial Institution, all due 
diligence, withholding, reporting, and other requirements that the Financial Institution would 
have been required to perform if it were a Reporting Indian Financial Institution and retains 
documentation collected with respect to the Financial Institution for a period of six years;  
c) The sponsoring entity identifies the Financial Institution in all reporting completed on the 
Financial Institution’s behalf; and  
d) The sponsoring entity has not had its status as a sponsor revoked.   
D. Investment Advisors and Investment Managers and Stock Brokers/Trading Members of 
Recognized Stock Exchanges.  An Investment Entity established in India that is a Financial Institution 
solely because it (1) renders investment advice to, and acts on behalf of, or (2) manages portfolios for, 
and acts on behalf of, or (3) executes trades on behalf of a customer for the purposes of investing, 
managing, or administering funds or securities deposited in the name of the customer with a Financial 
Institution other than a Nonparticipating Financial Institution.  
E. Collective Investment Vehicle.  An Investment Entity established in India that is regulated as a 
collective investment vehicle, provided that all of the interests in the collective investment vehicle 
(including debt interests in excess of $50,000) are held by or through one or more exempt beneficial 
owners, Active NFFEs described in subparagraph B(4) of section VI of Annex I, U.S. Persons that are 
not Specified U.S. Persons, or Financial Institutions that are not Nonparticipating Financial Institutions.   
F. Special Rules.  The following rules apply to an Investment Entity:   
1. With respect to interests in an Investment Entity that is a collective investment vehicle described in 
paragraph E of this section, the reporting obligations of any Investment Entity (other than a 
Financial Institution through which interests in the collective investment vehicle are held) shall be 
deemed fulfilled. 
2. With respect to interests in:  
a) An Investment Entity established in a Partner Jurisdiction that is regulated as a collective 
investment vehicle, all of the interests in which (including debt interests in excess of $50,000) 
are held by or through one or more exempt beneficial owners, Active NFFEs described in 
subparagraph B(4) of section VI of Annex I, U.S. Persons that are not Specified U.S. Persons, 
or Financial Institutions that are not Nonparticipating Financial Institutions; or 
b) An Investment Entity that is a qualified collective investment vehicle under relevant U.S. 
Treasury Regulations;  
109 | P a g e 
the reporting obligations of any Investment Entity that is an Indian Financial Institution (other than 
a Financial Institution through which interests in the collective investment vehicle are held) shall 
be deemed fulfilled. 
3. With respect to interests in an Investment Entity established in India that is not described in 
paragraph E or subparagraph F(2) of this section, consistent with paragraph 3 of Article 5 of the 
Agreement, the reporting obligations of all other Investment Entities with respect to such interests 
shall be deemed fulfilled if the information required to be reported by the first-mentioned 
Investment Entity pursuant to the Agreement with respect to such interests is reported by such 
Investment Entity or another person. 
V. 
Accounts Excluded from Financial Accounts.  The following accounts are excluded from the definition 
of Financial Accounts and therefore shall not be treated as U.S. Reportable Accounts. 
A. Certain Savings Accounts. 
1. Retirement and Pension Account.  A retirement or pension account maintained in India that 
satisfies the following requirements under the laws of India. 
a) The account is subject to regulation as a personal retirement account or is part of a registered 
or regulated retirement or pension plan for the provision of retirement or pension benefits 
(including disability or death benefits); 
b) The account is tax-favored (i.e., contributions to the account that would otherwise be subject 
to tax under the laws of India are deductible or excluded from the gross income of the account 
holder or taxed at a reduced rate, or taxation of investment income from the account is 
deferred or taxed at a reduced rate); 
c) Annual information reporting is required to the tax authorities in India with respect to the 
account; 
d) Withdrawals are conditioned on reaching a specified retirement age, disability, or death, or 
penalties apply to withdrawals made before such specified events; and 
e) Either (i) annual contributions are limited to $50,000 or less, or (ii) there is a maximum 
lifetime contribution limit to the account of $1,000,000 or less, in each case applying the rules 
set forth in Annex I for account aggregation and currency translation.  
2. Non-Retirement Savings Accounts.   
a)   An account maintained in India (other than an insurance or Annuity Contract) that satisfies the 
following requirements under the laws of India. 
i. 
The account is subject to regulation as a savings vehicle for purposes other than for 
retirement; 
ii. 
The account is tax-favored (i.e., contributions to the account that would otherwise be 
subject to tax under the laws of India are deductible or excluded from the gross income of 
the account holder or taxed at a reduced rate, or taxation of investment income from the 
account is deferred or taxed at a reduced rate); 
iii. Withdrawals are conditioned on meeting specific criteria related to the purpose of the 
savings account (for example, the provision of educational or medical benefits), or 
penalties apply to withdrawals made before such criteria are met; and 
iv. Annual contributions are limited to $50,000 or less, applying the rules set forth in Annex 
I for account aggregation and currency translation. 
b) An account established in India under the Senior Citizens Saving Scheme of 2004 to provide 
Indian senior citizens saving schemes and  savings and deposits account. 
B. Certain Term Life Insurance Contracts.  A life insurance contract maintained in India with a 
coverage period that will end before the insured individual attains age 90, provided that the contract 
satisfies the following requirements:  
1. Periodic premiums, which do not decrease over time, are payable at least annually during the 
period the contract is in existence or until the insured attains age 90, whichever is shorter; 
2. The contract has no contract value that any person can access (by withdrawal, loan, or otherwise) 
without terminating the contract; 
3. The amount (other than a death benefit) payable upon cancellation or termination of the contract 
cannot exceed the aggregate premiums paid for the contract, less the sum of mortality, morbidity, 
and expense charges (whether or not actually imposed) for the period or periods of the contract’s 
existence and any amounts paid prior to the cancellation or termination of the contract; and 
4. The contract is not held by a transferee for value. 
C. Account Held By an Estate.  An account maintained in India that is held solely by an estate if the 
documentation for such account includes a copy of the deceased’s will or death certificate. 
110 | P a g e 
D. Escrow Accounts.  An account maintained in India established in connection with any of the 
following:  
1. A court order or judgment. 
2. A sale, exchange, or lease of real or personal property, provided that the account satisfies the 
following requirements: 
a) The account is funded solely with a down payment, earnest money, deposit in an amount 
appropriate to secure an obligation directly related to the transaction, or a similar payment, or 
is funded with a financial asset that is deposited in the account in connection with the sale, 
exchange, or lease of the property;  
b) The account is established and used solely to secure the obligation of the purchaser to pay the 
purchase price for the property, the seller to pay any contingent liability, or the lessor or lessee 
to pay for any damages relating to the leased property as agreed under the lease; 
c) The assets of the account, including the income earned thereon, will be paid or otherwise 
distributed for the benefit of the purchaser, seller, lessor, or lessee (including to satisfy such 
person’s obligation) when the property is sold, exchanged, or surrendered, or the lease 
terminates; 
d) The account is not a margin or similar account established in connection with a sale or 
exchange of a financial asset; and 
e) The account is not associated with a credit card account.  
3. An obligation of a Financial Institution servicing a loan secured by real property to set aside a 
portion of a payment solely to facilitate the payment of taxes or insurance related to the real 
property at a later time. 
4. An obligation of a Financial Institution solely to facilitate the payment of taxes at a later time. 
E. Partner Jurisdiction Accounts.  An account maintained in India and excluded from the definition of 
Financial Account under an agreement between the United States and another Partner Jurisdiction to 
facilitate the implementation of FATCA, provided that such account is subject to the same 
requirements and oversight under the laws of such other Partner Jurisdiction as if such account were 
established in that Partner Jurisdiction and maintained by a Partner Jurisdiction Financial Institution in 
that Partner Jurisdiction. 
VI. Definitions.  The following additional definitions shall apply to the descriptions above: 
A. Reporting Model 1 FFI.  The term Reporting Model 1 FFI means a Financial Institution with respect 
to which a non-U.S. government or agency thereof agrees to obtain and exchange information pursuant 
to a Model 1 IGA, other than a Financial Institution treated as a Nonparticipating Financial Institution 
under the Model 1 IGA.  For purposes of this definition, the term Model 1 IGA means an arrangement 
between the United States or the Treasury Department and a non-U.S. government or one or more 
agencies thereof to implement FATCA through reporting by Financial Institutions to such non-U.S. 
government or agency thereof, followed by automatic exchange of such reported information with the 
IRS.    
B. Participating FFI.  The term Participating FFI means a Financial Institution that has agreed to comply 
with the requirements of an FFI Agreement, including a Financial Institution described in a Model 2 
IGA that has agreed to comply with the requirements of an FFI Agreement.  The term Participating FFI 
also includes a qualified intermediary branch of a Reporting U.S. Financial Institution, unless such 
branch is a Reporting Model 1 FFI.  For purposes of this definition, the term FFI Agreement means an 
agreement that sets forth the requirements for a Financial Institution to be treated as complying with the 
requirements of section 1471(b) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.  In addition, for purposes of this 
definition, the term Model 2 IGA means an arrangement between the United States or the Treasury 
Department and a non-U.S. government or one or more agencies thereof to facilitate the 
implementation of FATCA through reporting by Financial Institutions directly to the IRS in accordance 
with the requirements of an FFI Agreement, supplemented by the exchange of information between 
such non-U.S. government or agency thereof and the IRS.   
111 | P a g e 
112 | P a g e 
Appendix B : Common Reporting Standard 
Section I: General Reporting Requirements 
A. Subject to paragraphs C through F, each Reporting Financial Institution must report the 
following information with respect to each 
Reportable Account of such Reporting Financial Institution: 
1. the name, address, jurisdiction(s) of residence, TIN(s) and date and place of birth (in 
the case of an individual) of each Reportable Person that is an Account Holder of the 
account and, in the case of any Entity that is an Account Holder and that, after 
application of the due diligence procedures consistent with Sections V, VI and VII, is 
identified as having one or more Controlling Persons that is a Reportable Person, the 
name, address, jurisdiction(s) of residence and TIN(s) of the Entity and the name, 
address, jurisdiction(s) of residence, TIN(s) and date and place of birth of each 
Reportable Person; 
2. the account number (or functional equivalent in the absence of an account number); 
3. the name and identifying number (if any) of the Reporting Financial Institution; 
4. the account balance or value (including, in the case of a Cash Value Insurance 
Contract or Annuity Contract, the Cash Value or surrender value) as of the end of 
the relevant calendar year or other appropriate reporting period or, if the account 
was closed during such year or period, the closure of the account; 
5. in the case of any Custodial Account: 
a) the total gross amount of interest, the total gross amount of dividends, and the total gross amount of 
other income generated with respect to the assets held in the account, in each case paid or credited 
to the account (or with respect to the account) during the calendar year or other appropriate 
reporting period; and 
b) the total gross proceeds from the sale or redemption of Financial Assets paid or credited to the 
account during the calendar year or other appropriate reporting period with respect to which the 
Reporting Financial Institution acted as a custodian, broker, nominee, or otherwise as an agent for 
the Account Holder; 
6. in the case of any Depository Account, the total gross amount of interest paid or credited to the account 
during the calendar year or other appropriate reporting period; and 
7. in the case of any account not described in subparagraph A(5) or (6), the total gross amount paid or credited to 
the Account Holder with respect to the account during the calendar year or other appropriate reporting period 
with respect to which the Reporting Financial Institution is the obligor or debtor, including the aggregate 
amount of any redemption payments made to the Account Holder during the calendar year or other 
appropriate reporting period. 
B. The information reported must identify the currency in which each amount is denominated. 
C. Notwithstanding subparagraph A(1), with respect to each Reportable Account that is a Preexisting Account, 
the TIN(s) or date of birth is not required to be reported if such TIN(s) or date of birth is not in the records 
of the Reporting Financial Institution and is not otherwise required to be collected by such Reporting 
Financial Institution under domestic law. However, a Reporting Financial Institution is required to use 
reasonable efforts to obtain the TIN(s) and date of birth with respect to Preexisting Accounts by the end of 
the second calendar year following the year in which such Accounts were identified as Reportable 
Accounts. 
D. Notwithstanding subparagraph A(1), the TIN is not required to be reported if (i) a TIN is not issued by the 
relevant Reportable Jurisdiction or (ii) the domestic law of the relevant Reportable Jurisdiction does not 
require the collection of the TIN issued by such Reportable Jurisdiction. 
E. Notwithstanding subparagraph A(1), the place of birth is not required to be reported unless the Reporting 
Financial Institution is otherwise required to obtain and report it under domestic law and it is available in the 
electronically searchable data maintained by the Reporting Financial Institution. 
F. Notwithstanding paragraph A, the information to be reported with respect to [xxxx] is the information 
described in such paragraph, except for gross proceeds described in subparagraph A(5)(b). 
Section II: General Due Diligence Requirements 
113 | P a g e 
A. An account is treated as a Reportable Account beginning as of the date it is identified as such pursuant to the due 
diligence procedures in Sections II through VII and, unless otherwise provided, information with respect to a 
Reportable Account must be reported annually in the calendar year following the year to which the information 
relates. 
B. The balance or value of an account is determined as of the last day of the calendar year or other appropriate 
reporting period. 
C. Where a balance or value threshold is to be determined as of the last day of a calendar year, the relevant 
balance or value must be determined as of the last day of the reporting period that ends with or within that 
calendar year. 
D. Each Jurisdiction may allow Reporting Financial Institutions to use service providers to fulfil the reporting 
and due diligence obligations imposed on such Reporting Financial Institutions, as contemplated in 
domestic law, but these obligations shall remain the responsibility of the Reporting Financial Institutions. 
E. Each Jurisdiction may allow Reporting Financial Institutions to apply the due diligence procedures for New 
Accounts to Preexisting Accounts, and the due diligence procedures for High Value Accounts to Lower Value 
Accounts. Where a Jurisdiction allows New Account due diligence procedures to be used for Preexisting 
Accounts, the rules otherwise applicable to Preexisting Accounts continue to apply. 
Section III: Due Diligence for Preexisting Individual Accounts 
The following procedures apply for purposes of identifying Reportable Accounts among Preexisting Individual 
Accounts. 
A. Accounts Not Required to be Reviewed, Identified, or Reported. A Preexisting Individual Account that is 
a Cash Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract is not required to be reviewed, identified or 
reported, provided the Reporting Financial Institution is effectively prevented by law from selling such 
Contract to residents of a Reportable Jurisdiction. 
B. Lower Value Accounts. The following procedures apply with respect to Lower Value Accounts. 
1. Residence Address. If the Reporting Financial Institution has in its records a current residence address for 
the individual Account Holder based on Documentary Evidence, the Reporting Financial Institution may 
treat the individual Account Holder as being a resident for tax purposes of the jurisdiction in which the 
address is located for purposes of determining whether such individual Account Holder is a Reportable 
Person. 
2. Electronic Record Search. If the Reporting Financial Institution does not rely on a current residence 
address for the individual Account Holder based on Documentary Evidence as set forth in subparagraph 
B(1), the Reporting Financial Institution must review electronically searchable data maintained by the 
Reporting Financial Institution for any of the following indicia and apply subparagraphs B(3) through 
(6): 
a) identification of the Account Holder as a resident of a Reportable Jurisdiction; 
b) current mailing or residence address (including a post office box) in a Reportable Jurisdiction; 
c) one or more telephone numbers in a Reportable Jurisdiction and no telephone number in the 
jurisdiction of the Reporting Financial Institution; 
d) standing instructions (other than with respect to a Depository Account) to transfer funds to an 
account maintained in a Reportable Jurisdiction; 
e) currently effective power of attorney or signatory authority granted to a person with an address in a 
Reportable Jurisdiction; or 
f) a “hold mail” instruction or “in-care-of” address in a Reportable Jurisdiction if the Reporting Financial 
Institution does not have any other address on file for the Account Holder. 
3. If none of the indicia listed in subparagraph B(2) are discovered in the electronic search, then no further 
action is required until there is a change in circumstances that results in one or more indicia being 
associated with the account, or the account becomes a High Value Account. 
4. If any of the indicia listed in subparagraph B(2)(a) through (e) are discovered in the electronic search, or 
if there is a change in circumstances that results in one or more indicia being associated with the 
account, then the Reporting Financial Institution must treat the Account Holder as a resident for tax 
purposes of each Reportable Jurisdiction for which an indicium is identified, unless it elects to apply 
subparagraph B(6) and one of the exceptions in such subparagraph applies with respect to that account. 
5. If a “hold mail” instruction or “in-care-of” address is discovered in the electronic search and no other 
address and none of the other indicia listed in subparagraph B(2)(a) through (e) are identified for the 
Account Holder, the Reporting Financial Institution must, in the order most appropriate to the 
circumstances, apply the paper record search described in subparagraph C(2), or seek to obtain from the 
114 | P a g e 
Account Holder a self-certification or Documentary Evidence to establish the residence(s) for tax purposes 
of such Account Holder. If the paper search fails to establish an indicium and the attempt to obtain the self
certification or Documentary Evidence is not successful, the Reporting Financial Institution must report the 
account as an undocumented account. 
6. Notwithstanding a finding of indicia under subparagraph B(2), a Reporting Financial Institution is not 
required to treat an Account Holder as a resident of a Reportable Jurisdiction if: 
a) the Account Holder information contains a current mailing or residence address in the Reportable 
Jurisdiction, one or more telephone numbers in the Reportable Jurisdiction (and no telephone 
number in the jurisdiction of the Reporting Financial Institution) or standing instructions (with 
respect to Financial Accounts other than Depository Accounts) to transfer funds to an account 
maintained in a Reportable Jurisdiction, the Reporting Financial Institution obtains, or has 
previously reviewed and maintains a record of: 
i) a self-certification from the Account Holder of the jurisdiction(s) of residence of such Account 
Holder that does not include such Reportable Jurisdiction; and 
ii) Documentary Evidence establishing the Account Holder’s non-reportable status. 
b) the Account Holder information contains a currently effective power of attorney or signatory 
authority granted to a person with an address in the Reportable Jurisdiction, the Reporting 
Financial Institution obtains, or has previously reviewed and maintains a record of: 
i) 
a self-certification from the Account Holder of the jurisdiction(s) of residence of such Account 
Holder that does not include such Reportable Jurisdiction; or 
ii) Documentary Evidence establishing the Account Holder’s non-reportable status. 
C. Enhanced Review Procedures for High Value Accounts. The following enhanced review procedures apply 
with respect to High Value Accounts. 
1. Electronic Record Search. With respect to High Value Accounts, the Reporting Financial Institution must 
review electronically searchable data maintained by the Reporting Financial Institution for any of the indicia 
described in subparagraph B(2). 
2. Paper Record Search. If the Reporting Financial Institution’s electronically searchable databases 
include fields for, and capture all of the information described in, subparagraph C(3), then a further 
paper record search is not required. If the electronic databases do not capture all of this information, 
then with respect to a High Value Account, the Reporting Financial Institution must also review the 
current customer master file and, to the extent not contained in the current customer master file, the 
following documents associated with the account and obtained by the Reporting Financial Institution 
within the last five years for any of the indicia described in subparagraph B(2): 
a) the most recent Documentary Evidence collected with respect to the account; 
b) the most recent account opening contract or documentation; 
c) the most recent documentation obtained by the Reporting Financial Institution pursuant to 
AML/KyC Procedures or for other regulatory purposes; 
d) any power of attorney or signature authority forms currently in effect; and 
e) any standing instructions (other than with respect to a Depository Account) to transfer funds 
currently in effect. 
3. Exception To The Extent Databases Contain Sufficient Information. A Reporting Financial Institution is 
not required to perform the paper record search described in subparagraph C(2) to the extent the Reporting 
Financial Institution’s electronically searchable information includes the following: 
a) the Account Holder’s residence status; 
b) the Account Holder’s residence address and mailing address currently on file with the Reporting 
Financial Institution; 
c) the Account Holder’s telephone number(s) currently on file, if any, with the Reporting Financial 
Institution; 
d) in the case of Financial Accounts other than Depository Accounts, whether there are standing 
instructions to transfer funds in the account to another account (including an account at another 
branch of the Reporting Financial Institution or another Financial Institution); 
e) whether there is a current “in-care-of” address or “hold mail” instruction for the Account Holder; 
and 
f) whether there is any power of attorney or signatory authority for the account. 
4. Relationship Manager Inquiry for Actual Knowledge. In addition to the electronic and paper record 
searches described above, the Reporting Financial Institution must treat as a Reportable Account any High 
Value Account assigned to a relationship manager (including any Financial Accounts aggregated with that 
115 | P a g e 
High Value Account) if the relationship manager has actual knowledge that the Account Holder is a 
Reportable Person. 
5. Effect of Finding Indicia. 
a) If none of the indicia listed in subparagraph B(2) are discovered in the enhanced review of High 
Value Accounts described above, and the account is not identified as held by a Reportable Person in 
subparagraph C(4), then further action is not required until there is a change in circumstances that 
results in one or more indicia being associated with the account. 
b) If any of the indicia listed in subparagraph B(2)(a) through (e) are discovered in the enhanced 
review of High Value Accounts described above, or if there is a subsequent change in circumstances 
that results in one or more indiciabeing associated with the account, then the Reporting Financial 
Institution must treat the account as a Reportable Account with respect to each Reportable 
Jurisdiction for which an indicium is identified unless it elects to apply subparagraph B(6) and one 
of the exceptions in such subparagraph applies with respect to that account. 
c) If a “hold mail” instruction or “in-care-of” address is discovered in the enhanced review of High Value 
Accounts described above, and no other address and none of the other indicia listed in subparagraph 
B(2)(a) through (e) are identified for the Account Holder, the Reporting Financial Institution must obtain 
from such Account Holder a self-certification or Documentary Evidence to establish the residence(s) for 
tax purposes of the Account Holder. If the Reporting Financial Institution cannot obtain such self
certification or Documentary Evidence, it must report the account as an undocumented account. 
6. If a Preexisting Individual Account is not a High Value Account as of 31 December [xxxx], but becomes 
a High Value Account as of the last day of a subsequent calendar year, the Reporting Financial Institution 
must complete the enhanced review procedures described in paragraph C with respect to such account 
within the calendar year following the year in which the account becomes a High Value Account. If based 
on this review such account is identified as a Reportable Account, the Reporting Financial Institution 
must report the required information about such account with respect to the year in which it is identified 
as a Reportable Account and subsequent years on an annual basis, unless the Account Holder ceases to be 
a Reportable Person. 
7. Once a Reporting Financial Institution applies the enhanced review procedures described in paragraph C to a 
High Value Account, the Reporting Financial Institution is not required to re-apply such procedures, other 
than the relationship manager inquiry described in subparagraph C(4), to the same High Value Account in 
any subsequent year unless the account is undocumented where the Reporting Financial Institution should 
re-apply them annually until such account ceases to be undocumented. 
8. If there is a change of circumstances with respect to a High Value Account that results in one or 
more indicia described in subparagraph B(2) being associated with the account, then the Reporting 
Financial Institution must treat the account as a Reportable Account with respect to each Reportable 
Jurisdiction for which an indicium is identified unless it elects to apply subparagraph B(6) and one of 
the exceptions in such subparagraph applies with respect to that account. 
9. 9. A Reporting Financial Institution must implement procedures to ensure that a relationship manager identifies 
any change in circumstances of an account. For example, if a relationship manager is notified that the Account 
Holder has a new mailing address in a Reportable Jurisdiction, the Reporting Financial Institution is required 
to treat the new address as a change in circumstances and, if it elects to apply subparagraph B(6), is required to 
obtain the appropriate documentation from the Account Holder. 
D. Review of Preexisting Individual Accounts must be completed by [xx/xx/xxxx]. 
E. Any Preexisting Individual Account that has been identified as a Reportable Account under this Section must 
be treated as a Reportable Account in all subsequent years, unless the Account Holder ceases to be a 
Reportable Person. 
F. Section IV: Due Diligence for New Individual Accounts 
The following procedures apply for purposes of identifying Reportable Accounts among New Individual 
Accounts. 
A. With respect to New Individual Accounts, upon account opening, the Reporting Financial Institution must obtain a 
self-certification, which may be part of the account opening documentation, that allows the Reporting Financial 
Institution to determine the Account Holder’s residence(s) for tax purposes and confirm the reasonableness of such 
self-certification based on the information obtained by the Reporting Financial Institution in connection with the 
opening of the account, including any documentation collected pursuant to AML/KyC Procedures. 
B. If the self-certification establishes that the Account Holder is resident for tax purposes in a Reportable 
Jurisdiction, the Reporting Financial Institution must treat the account as a Reportable Account and the self
certification must also include the Account Holder’s TIN with respect to such Reportable Jurisdiction (subject 
to paragraph D of Section I) and date of birth. 
C. If there is a change of circumstances with respect to a New Individual Account that causes the Reporting 
116 | P a g e 
Financial Institution to know, or have reason to know, that the original self-certification is incorrect or 
unreliable, the Reporting Financial Institution cannot rely on the original self-certification and must obtain a 
valid self-certification that establishes the residence(s) for tax purposes of the Account Holder. 
Section V: Due Diligence for Preexisting Entity Accounts 
The following procedures apply for purposes of identifying Reportable Accounts among Preexisting Entity 
Accounts. 
A. Entity Accounts Not Required to Be Reviewed, Identified or Reported. Unless the Reporting Financial 
Institution elects otherwise, either with respect to all Preexisting Entity Accounts or, separately, with respect to 
any clearly identified group of such accounts, a Preexisting Entity Account with an aggregate account balance or 
value that does not exceed USD 250 000 as of 31 December [xxxx], is not required to be reviewed, identified, or 
reported as a Reportable Account until the aggregate account balance or value exceeds USD 250 000 as of the 
last day of any subsequent calendar year. 
B. Entity Accounts Subject to Review. A Preexisting Entity Account that has an aggregate account balance or 
value that exceeds USD 250 000 as of 31 December [xxxx], and a Preexisting Entity Account that does not 
exceed USD 250 000 as of 31 December [xxxx] but the aggregate account balance or value of which exceeds 
USD 250 000 as of the last day of any subsequent calendar year, must be reviewed in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in paragraph D. 
C. Entity Accounts With Respect to Which Reporting Is Required. With respect to Preexisting Entity 
Accounts described in paragraph B, only accounts that are held by one or more Entities that are Reportable 
Persons, or by Passive NFEs with one or more Controlling Persons who are Reportable Persons, shall be 
treated as Reportable Accounts. 
D. Review Procedures for Identifying Entity Accounts With Respect to Which Reporting Is Required. For 
Preexisting Entity Accounts described in paragraph B, a Reporting Financial Institution must apply the 
following review procedures to determine whether the account is held by one or more Reportable Persons, or by 
Passive NFEs with one or more Controlling Persons who are Reportable Persons: 
1. Determine Whether the Entity Is a Reportable Person. 
a) Review information maintained for regulatory or customer relationship purposes (including 
information collected pursuant to AML/KyC Procedures) to determine whether the information 
indicates that the Account Holder is resident in a Reportable Jurisdiction. For this purpose, 
information indicating that the Account Holder is resident in a Reportable Jurisdiction includes a 
place of incorporation or organisation, or an address in a Reportable Jurisdiction. 
b) If the information indicates that the Account Holder is resident in a Reportable Jurisdiction, the 
Reporting Financial Institution must treat the account as a Reportable Account unless it obtains a 
self-certification from the Account Holder, or reasonably determines based on information in its 
possession or that is publicly available, that the Account Holder is not a Reportable Person. 
2. Determine Whether the Entity is a Passive NFE with One or More Controlling Persons Who Are 
Reportable Persons. With respect to an Account Holder of a Preexisting Entity Account (including an 
Entity that is a Reportable Person), the Reporting Financial Institution must determine whether the 
Account Holder is a Passive NFE with one or more Controlling Persons who are Reportable Persons. If 
any of the Controlling Persons of a Passive NFE is a Reportable Person, then the account must be treated 
as a Reportable Account. In making these determinations the Reporting Financial Institution must follow 
the guidance in subparagraphs D(2)(a) through (c) in the order most appropriate under the circumstances. 
a) Determining whether the Account Holder is a Passive NFE. For purposes of determining 
whether 
the 
Account 
Holder is a Passive NFE, 
the Reporting Financial Institution must obtain a self-certification from the Account Holder to 
establish its status, unless it has information in its possession or that is publicly available, based on 
which it can reasonably determine that the Account Holder is an Active NFE or a Financial 
Institution other than an Investment Entity described in subparagraph A(6)(b) of Section VIII that is 
not a Participating Jurisdiction Financial Institution. 
b) Determining the Controlling Persons of an Account Holder. For the purposes of determining the 
Controlling Persons of an Account Holder, a Reporting Financial Institution may rely on 
information collected and maintained pursuant to AML/KyC Procedures. 
c) Determining whether a Controlling Person of a Passive NFE is a Reportable Person. For the 
purposes of determining whether a Controlling Person of a Passive NFE is a Reportable Person, a 
Reporting Financial Institution may rely on: 
i) information collected and maintained pursuant to AML/KyC Procedures in the case of a 
117 | P a g e 
Preexisting Entity Account held by one or more NFEs with an aggregate account balance or 
value that does not exceed USD 1 000 000; or 
ii) a self-certification from the Account Holder or such Controlling Person of the jurisdiction(s) in 
which the Controlling Person is resident for tax purposes. 
E. Timing of Review and Additional Procedures Applicable to Preexisting Entity Accounts. 
1. Review of Preexisting Entity Accounts with an aggregate account balance or value that exceeds USD 
250 000 as of 31 December [xxxx] must be completed by 31 December [xxxx]. 
2. Review of Preexisting Entity Accounts with an aggregate account balance or value that does not exceed 
USD 250 000 as of 31 December [xxxx], but exceeds USD 250 000 as of 31 December of a subsequent 
year, must be completed within the calendar year following the year in which the aggregate account 
balance or value exceeds USD 250 000. 
3. If there is a change of circumstances with respect to a Preexisting Entity Account that causes the 
Reporting Financial Institution to know, or have reason to know, that the self-certification or other 
documentation associated with an account is incorrect or unreliable, the Reporting Financial Institution 
must re-determine the status of the account in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph D. 
Section VI: Due Diligence for New Entity Accounts 
The following procedures apply for purposes of identifying Reportable Accounts among New Entity Accounts. 
A. Review Procedures for Identifying Entity Accounts With Respect to Which Reporting Is Required. For 
New Entity Accounts, a Reporting Financial Institution must apply the following review procedures to 
determine whether the account is held by one or more Reportable Persons, or by Passive NFEs with one or 
more Controlling Persons who are Reportable Persons: 
1. Determine Whether the Entity Is a Reportable Person. 
a) Obtain a self-certification, which may be part of the account opening documentation, that allows the 
Reporting Financial Institution to determine the Account Holder’s residence(s) for tax purposes and 
confirm the reasonableness of such self-certification based on the information obtained by the Reporting 
Financial Institution in connection with the opening of the account, including any documentation 
collected pursuant to AML/KyC Procedures. If the Entity certifies that it has no residence for tax 
purposes, the Reporting Financial Institution may rely on the address of the principal office of the Entity 
to determine the residence of the Account Holder. 
b) If the self-certification indicates that the Account Holder is resident in a Reportable Jurisdiction, the 
Reporting Financial Institution must treat the account as a Reportable Account unless it reasonably 
determines based on information in its possession or that is publicly available, that the Account 
Holder is not a Reportable Person with respect to such Reportable Jurisdiction. 
2. Determine Whether the Entity is a Passive NFE with One or More Controlling Persons Who Are 
Reportable Persons. With respect to an Account Holder of a New Entity Account (including an Entity that 
is a Reportable Person), the Reporting Financial Institution must determine whether the Account Holder is a 
Passive NFE with one or more Controlling Persons who are Reportable Persons. If any of the Controlling 
Persons of a Passive NFE is a Reportable Person, then the account must be treated as a Reportable Account. 
In making these determinations the Reporting Financial Institution must follow the guidance in 
subparagraphs A(2)(a) through (c) in the order most appropriate under the circumstances. 
a) Determining whether the Account Holder is a Passive NFE. For purposes of determining whether 
the Account Holder is a Passive NFE, the Reporting Financial Institution must rely on a self
certification from the Account Holder to establish its status, unless it has information in its 
possession or that is publicly available, based on which it can reasonably determine that the 
Account Holder is an Active NFE or a Financial Institution other than an Investment Entity 
described in subparagraph A(6)(b) of Section VIII that is not a Participating Jurisdiction Financial 
Institution. 
b) Determining the Controlling Persons of an Account Holder. For purposes of determining the 
Controlling Persons of an Account Holder, a Reporting Financial Institution may rely on 
information collected and maintained pursuant to AML/KyC Procedures. 
c) Determining whether a Controlling Person of a Passive NFE is a Reportable Person. For purposes of 
determining whether a Controlling Person of a Passive NFE is a Reportable Person, a Reporting Financial 
Institution may rely on a self-certification from the Account Holder or such Controlling Person. 
Section VII: Special Due Diligence Rules 
118 | P a g e 
The following additional rules apply in implementing the due diligence procedures described above: 
A. Reliance on Self-Certifications and Documentary Evidence. A Reporting Financial Institution may not 
rely on a self-certification or Documentary Evidence if the Reporting Financial Institution knows or has 
reason to know that the self-certification or Documentary Evidence is incorrect or unreliable. 
B. Alternative Procedures for Financial Accounts Held by Individual Beneficiaries of a Cash Value 
Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract. A Reporting Financial Institution may presume that an 
individual beneficiary (other than the owner) of a Cash Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract 
receiving a death benefit is not a Reportable Person and may treat such Financial Account as other than a 
Reportable Account unless the Reporting Financial Institution has actual knowledge, or reason to know, that 
the beneficiary is a Reportable Person. A Reporting Financial Institution has reason to know that a 
beneficiary of a Cash Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract is a Reportable Person if the 
information collected by the Reporting Financial Institution and associated with the beneficiary contains 
indicia as described in paragraph B of Section III. If a Reporting Financial Institution has actual knowledge, 
or reason to know, that the beneficiary is a Reportable Person, the Reporting Financial Institution must follow 
the procedures in paragraph B of Section III. 
C. Account Balance Aggregation and Currency Rules. 
1. Aggregation of Individual Accounts. For purposes of determining the aggregate balance or value of 
Financial Accounts held by an individual, a Reporting Financial Institution is required to aggregate all 
Financial Accounts maintained by the Reporting Financial Institution, or by a Related Entity, but only to the 
extent that the Reporting Financial Institution’s computerised systems link the Financial Accounts by 
reference to a data element such as client number or TIN, and allow account balances or values to be 
aggregated. Each holder of a jointly held Financial Account shall be attributed the entire balance or value of 
the jointly held Financial Account for purposes of applying the aggregation requirements described in this 
subparagraph. 
2. Aggregation of Entity Accounts. For purposes of determining the aggregate balance or value of 
Financial Accounts held by an Entity, a Reporting Financial Institution is required to take into account all 
Financial Accounts that are maintained by the Reporting Financial Institution, or by a Related Entity, but 
only to the extent that the Reporting Financial Institution’s computerised systems link the Financial 
Accounts by reference to a data element such as client number or TIN, and allow account balances or 
values to be aggregated. Each holder of a jointly held Financial Account shall be attributed the entire 
balance or value of the jointly held Financial Account for purposes of applying the aggregation 
requirements described in this subparagraph. 
3. Special Aggregation Rule Applicable to Relationship Managers. For purposes of determining the aggregate 
balance or value of Financial Accounts held by a person to determine whether a Financial Account is a High 
Value Account, a Reporting Financial Institution is also required, in the case of any Financial Accounts that a 
relationship manager knows, or has reason to know, are directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or established 
(other than in a fiduciary capacity) by the same person, to aggregate all such accounts. 
4. Amounts Read to Include Equivalent in Other Currencies. All dollar amounts are in US dollars and 
shall be read to include equivalent amounts in other currencies, as determined by domestic law. 
Section VIII: Defined Terms 
The following terms have the meanings set forth below: A. Reporting Financial Institution 
1. The term “Reporting Financial Institution” means any Participating Jurisdiction Financial Institution 
that is not a Non-Reporting Financial Institution. 
2. The term “Participating Jurisdiction Financial Institution” means (i) any Financial Institution that is 
resident in a Participating Jurisdiction, but excludes any branch of that Financial Institution that is located 
outside such Participating Jurisdiction, and (ii) any branch of a Financial Institution that is not resident in a 
Participating Jurisdiction, if that branch is located in such Participating Jurisdiction. 
3. The term “Financial Institution” means a Custodial Institution, a Depository Institution, an Investment 
Entity, or a Specified Insurance Company. 
4. The term “Custodial Institution” means any Entity that holds, as a substantial portion of its business, 
Financial Assets for the account of others. An Entity holds Financial Assets for the account of others as a 
substantial portion of its business if the Entity’s gross income attributable to the holding of Financial Assets 
and related financial services equals or exceeds 20% of the Entity’s gross income during the shorter of: (i) 
the three-year period that ends on 31 December (or the final day of a non-calendar year accounting period) 
prior to the year in which the determination is being made; or (ii) the period during which the Entity has 
been in existence. 
5. The term “Depository Institution” means any Entity that accepts deposits in the ordinary course of a 
119 | P a g e 
banking or similar business. 
6. The term “Investment Entity” means any Entity: 
a) that primarily conducts as a business one or more of the following activities or operations for or on 
behalf of a customer: 
i) trading in money market instruments (cheques, bills, certificates of deposit, derivatives, etc.); 
foreign exchange; exchange, interest rate and index instruments; transferable securities; or 
commodity futures trading; 
ii) individual and collective portfolio management; or 
iii) otherwise investing, administering, or managing Financial Assets or money on behalf of other 
persons; or 
b)  the gross income of which is primarily attributable to investing, reinvesting, or trading in Financial 
Assets, if the Entity is managed by another Entity that is a Depository Institution, a Custodial 
Institution, a Specified Insurance Company, or an Investment Entity described in subparagraph 
A(6)(a). An Entity is treated as primarily conducting as a business one or more of the activities 
described in subparagraph A(6)(a), or an Entity’s gross income is primarily attributable to 
investing, reinvesting, or trading in Financial Assets for purposes of subparagraph A(6)(b), if the 
Entity’s gross income attributable to the relevant activities equals or exceeds 50% of the Entity’s 
gross income during the shorter of: (i) the three-year period ending on 31 December of the year 
preceding the year in which the determination is made; or (ii) the period during which the Entity 
has been in existence. The term “Investment Entity” does not include an Entity that is an Active 
NFE because it meets any of the criteria in subparagraphs D(9)(d) through (g). This paragraph shall 
be interpreted in a manner consistent with similar language set forth in the definition of “financial 
institution” in the Financial Action Task Force Recommendations. 
7. The term “Financial Asset” includes a security (for example, a share of stock in a corporation; partnership 
or beneficial ownership interest in a widely held or publicly traded partnership or trust; note, bond, 
debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness), partnership interest, commodity, swap (for example, interest 
rate swaps, currency swaps, basis swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors, commodity swaps, equity 
swaps, equity index swaps, and similar agreements), Insurance Contract or Annuity Contract, or any 
interest (including a futures or forward contract or option) in a security, partnership interest, commodity, 
swap, Insurance Contract, or Annuity Contract. The term “Financial Asset” does not include a non-debt, 
direct interest in real property. 
8. The term “Specified Insurance Company” means any Entity that is an insurance company (or the 
holding company of an insurance company) that issues, or is obligated to make payments with respect 
to, a Cash Value Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract. 
B. Non-Reporting Financial Institution 
1. The term “Non-Reporting Financial Institution” means any Financial Institution that is: 
a) a Governmental Entity, International Organisation or Central Bank, other than with respect to a payment 
that is derived from an obligation held in connection with a commercial financial activity of a type 
engaged in by a Specified Insurance Company, Custodial Institution, or Depository Institution; 
b) a Broad Participation Retirement Fund; a Narrow Participation Retirement Fund; a Pension Fund of a 
Governmental Entity, International Organisation or Central Bank; or a Qualified Credit Card Issuer; 
c) any other Entity that presents a low risk of being used to evade tax, has substantially similar 
characteristics to any of the Entities described in subparagraphs B(1)(a) and (b), and is defined in 
domestic law as a Non-Reporting Financial Institution, provided that the status of such Entity as a 
Non-Reporting Financial Institution does not frustrate the purposes of the Common Reporting 
Standard; 
d) an Exempt Collective Investment Vehicle; or 
e) a trust to the extent that the trustee of the trust is a Reporting Financial Institution and reports all 
information required to be reported pursuant to Section I with respect to all Reportable Accounts of 
the trust. 
2. The term “Governmental Entity” means the government of a jurisdiction, any political subdivision of a 
jurisdiction (which, for the avoidance of doubt, includes a state, province, county, or municipality), or 
any wholly owned agency or instrumentality of a jurisdiction or of any one or more of the foregoing 
(each, a “Governmental Entity”). This category is comprised of the integral parts, controlled entities, 
and political subdivisions of a jurisdiction. 
a) An “integral part” of a jurisdiction means any person, organisation, agency, bureau, fund, 
120 | P a g e 
instrumentality, or other body, however designated, that constitutes a governing authority of a 
jurisdiction. The net earnings of the governing authority must be credited to its own account or to 
other accounts of the jurisdiction, with no portion inuring to the benefit of any private person. An 
integral part does not include any individual who is a sovereign, official, or administrator acting in a 
private or personal capacity. 
b) A controlled entity means an Entity that is separate in form from the jurisdiction or that otherwise 
constitutes a separate juridical entity, provided that: 
i) the Entity is wholly owned and controlled by one or more Governmental Entities directly or 
through one or more controlled entities; 
ii) the Entity’s net earnings are credited to its own account or to the accounts of one or more 
Governmental Entities, with no portion of its income inuring to the benefit of any private 
person; and 
iii) 
the Entity’s assets vest in one or more Governmental Entities upon dissolution. 
c) Income does not inure to the benefit of private persons if such persons are the intended beneficiaries of 
a governmental programme, and the programme activities are performed for the general public with 
respect to the common welfare or relate to the administration of some phase of government. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, income is considered to inure to the benefit of private persons 
if the income is derived from the use of a governmental entity to conduct a commercial business, such 
as a commercial banking business, that provides financial services to private persons. 
3. The term “International Organisation” means any international organisation or wholly owned agency 
or instrumentality thereof. This category includes any intergovernmental organisation (including a 
supranational organisation) (1) that is comprised primarily of governments; (2) that has in effect a 
headquarters or substantially similar agreement with the jurisdiction; and (3) the income of which does 
not inure to the benefit of private persons. 
4. The term “Central Bank” means an institution that is by law or government sanction the principal 
authority, other than the government of the jurisdiction itself, issuing instruments intended to circulate as 
currency. Such an institution may include an instrumentality that is separate from the government of the 
jurisdiction, whether or not owned in whole or in part by the jurisdiction. 
5. The term “Broad Participation Retirement Fund” means a fund established to provide retirement, 
disability, or death benefits, or any combination thereof, to beneficiaries that are current or former 
employees (or persons designated by such employees) of one or more employers in consideration for 
services rendered, provided that the fund: 
a) does not have a single beneficiary with a right to more than five per cent of the fund’s assets; 
b) is subject to government regulation and provides information reporting to the tax authorities; and 
c) satisfies at least one of the following requirements: 
i) 
the fund is generally exempt from tax on investment income, or taxation of such income is 
deferred or taxed at a reduced rate, due to its status as a retirement or pension plan; 
ii) the fund receives at least 50% of its total contributions (other than transfers of assets from other 
plans described in subparagraphs B(5) through (7) or from retirement and pension accounts 
described in subparagraph C(17)(a)) from the sponsoring employers; 
iii) 
distributions or withdrawals from the fund are allowed only upon the occurrence of specified 
events related to retirement, disability, or death (except rollover distributions to other retirement 
funds described in subparagraphs B(5) through (7) or retirement and pension accounts described 
in subparagraph C(17)(a)), or penalties apply to distributions or withdrawals made before such 
specified events; or 
iv) contributions (other than certain permitted make-up contributions) by employees to the fund 
are limited by reference to earned income of the employee or may not exceed USD 50 000 
annually, applying the rules set forth in paragraph C of Section VII for account aggregation 
and currency translation. 
6. The term “Narrow Participation Retirement Fund” means a fund established to provide retirement, 
disability, or death benefits to beneficiaries that are current or former employees (or persons designated 
by such employees) of one or more employers in consideration for services rendered, provided that: 
a) the fund has fewer than 50 participants; 
b) the fund is sponsored by one or more employers that are not Investment Entities or Passive NFEs; 
c) the employee and employer contributions to the fund (other than transfers of assets from retirement 
and pension accounts described in subparagraph C(17)(a)) are limited by reference to earned income 
and compensation of the employee, respectively; 
121 | P a g e 
d) participants that are not residents of the jurisdiction in which the fund is established are not entitled 
to more than 20% of the fund’s assets; and 
e) the fund is subject to government regulation and provides information reporting to the tax 
authorities. 
7. The term “Pension Fund of a Governmental Entity, International Organisation or Central Bank” means 
a fund established by a Governmental Entity, International Organisation or Central Bank to provide 
retirement, disability, or death benefits to beneficiaries or participants that are current or former employees 
(or persons designated by such employees), or that are not current or former employees, if the benefits 
provided to such beneficiaries or participants are in consideration of personal services performed for the 
Governmental Entity, International Organisation or Central Bank. 
8. The term “Qualified Credit Card Issuer” means a Financial Institution satisfying the following 
requirements: 
a) the Financial Institution is a Financial Institution solely because it is an issuer of credit cards that 
accepts deposits only when a customer makes a payment in excess of a balance due with respect to 
the card and the overpayment is not immediately returned to the customer; and 
b) beginning on or before [xx/xx/xxxx], the Financial Institution implements policies and procedures 
either to prevent a customer from making an overpayment in excess of USD 50 000, or to ensure that 
any customer overpayment in excess of USD 50 000 is refunded to the customer within 60 days, in 
each case applying the rules set forth in paragraph C of Section VII for account aggregation and 
currency translation. For this purpose, a customer overpayment does not refer to credit balances to the 
extent of disputed charges but does include credit balances resulting from merchandise returns. 
9. The term “Exempt Collective Investment Vehicle” means an Investment Entity that is regulated as a 
collective investment vehicle, provided that all of the interests in the collective investment vehicle are 
held by or through individuals or Entities that are not Reportable Persons, except a Passive NFE with 
Controlling Persons who are Reportable Persons. 
An Investment Entity that is regulated as a collective investment vehicle does not fail to qualify under 
subparagraph B(9) as an Exempt Collective Investment Vehicle, solely because the collective 
investment vehicle has issued physical shares in bearer form, provided that: 
a) the collective investment vehicle has not issued, and does not issue, any physical shares in bearer 
form after [xx/xx/xxxx]; 
b) the collective investment vehicle retires all such shares upon surrender; 
c) the collective investment vehicle performs the due diligence procedures set forth in Sections II 
through VII and reports any information required to be reported with respect to any such shares 
when such shares are presented for redemption or other payment; and 
d) the collective investment vehicle has in place policies and procedures to ensure that such shares are 
redeemed or immobilised as soon as possible, and in any event prior to [xx/xx/xxxx]. 
C. Financial Account 
1. The term “Financial Account” means an account maintained by a Financial Institution, and includes a 
Depository Account, a Custodial Account and: 
a) in the case of an Investment Entity, any equity or debt interest in the Financial Institution. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term “Financial Account” does not include any equity or debt 
interest in an Entity that is an Investment Entity solely because it (i) renders investment advice to, and 
acts on behalf of, or (ii) manages portfolios for, and acts on behalf of, a customer for the purpose of 
investing, managing, or administering Financial Assets deposited in the name of the customer with a 
Financial Institution other than such Entity; 
b) in the case of a Financial Institution not described in subparagraph C(1)(a), any equity or debt interest in the 
Financial Institution, if the class of interests was established with a purpose of avoiding reporting in 
accordance with Section I; and 
c) any Cash Value Insurance Contract and any Annuity Contract issued or maintained by a Financial 
Institution, other than a noninvestment-linked, non-transferable immediate life annuity that is issued to 
an individual and monetises a pension or disability benefit provided under an account that is an 
Excluded Account. 
The term “Financial Account” does not include any account that is an Excluded Account. 
2. The term “Depository Account” includes any commercial, checking, savings, time, or thrift account, or 
an account that is evidenced by a certificate of deposit, thrift certificate, investment certificate, 
122 | P a g e 
certificate of indebtedness, or other similar instrument maintained by a Financial Institution in the 
ordinary course of a banking or similar business. A Depository Account also includes an amount held by 
an insurance company pursuant to a guaranteed investment contract or similar agreement to pay or credit 
interest thereon. 
3. The term “Custodial Account” means an account (other than an Insurance Contract or Annuity 
Contract) that holds one or more Financial Assets for the benefit of another person. 
4. The term “Equity Interest” means, in the case of a partnership that is a Financial Institution, either a 
capital or profits interest in the partnership. In the case of a trust that is a Financial Institution, an Equity 
Interest is considered to be held by any person treated as a settlor or beneficiary of all or a portion of the 
trust, or any other natural person exercising ultimate effective control over the trust. A Reportable 
Person will be treated as being a beneficiary of a trust if such Reportable Person has the right to receive 
directly or indirectly (for example, through a nominee) a mandatory distribution or may receive, directly 
or indirectly, a discretionary distribution from the trust. 
5. The term “Insurance Contract” means a contract (other than an Annuity Contract) under which the 
issuer agrees to pay an amount upon the occurrence of a specified contingency involving mortality, 
morbidity, accident, liability, or property risk. 
6. The term “Annuity Contract” means a contract under which the issuer agrees to make payments for a 
period of time determined in whole or in part by reference to the life expectancy of one or more 
individuals. The term also includes a contract that is considered to be an Annuity Contract in accordance 
with the law, regulation, or practice of the jurisdiction in which the contract was issued, and under which 
the issuer agrees to make payments for a term of years. 
7. The term “Cash Value Insurance Contract” means an Insurance Contract (other than an indemnity 
reinsurance contract between two insurance companies) that has a Cash Value. 
8. The term “Cash Value” means the greater of (i) the amount that the policyholder is entitled to receive 
upon surrender or termination of the contract (determined without reduction for any surrender charge or 
policy loan), and (ii) the amount the policyholder can borrow under or with regard to the contract. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term “Cash Value” does not include an amount payable under an 
Insurance Contract: 
a) solely by reason of the death of an individual insured under a life insurance contract; 
b) as a personal injury or sickness benefit or other benefit providing indemnification of an economic 
loss incurred upon the occurrence of the event insured against; 
c) as a refund of a previously paid premium (less cost of insurance charges whether or not actually 
imposed) under an Insurance Contract (other than an investment-linked life insurance or annuity 
contract) due to cancellation or termination of the contract, decrease in risk exposure during the 
effective period of the contract, or arising from the correction of a posting or similar error with 
regard to the premium for the contract; 
d) as a policyholder dividend (other than a termination dividend) provided that the dividend relates to 
an Insurance Contract under which the only benefits payable are described in subparagraph C(8)(b); 
or 
e) as a return of an advance premium or premium deposit for an Insurance Contract for which the 
premium is payable at least annually if the amount of the advance premium or premium deposit 
does not exceed the next annual premium that will be payable under the contract. 
9.  The term “Preexisting Account” means a Financial Account maintained by a Reporting Financial Institution as 
of [xx/xx/ xxxx]. 
10. The term “New Account” means a Financial Account maintained by a Reporting Financial Institution   opened 
on or after [xx/xx/ xxxx]. 
11.  The term “Preexisting Individual Account” means a Preexisting Account held by one or more individuals. 
12.   The term “New Individual Account” means a New Account held by one or more individuals. 
13. The term “Preexisting Entity Account” means a Preexisting Account held by one or more Entities. 
14. The term “Lower Value Account” means a Preexisting Individual Account with an aggregate balance or value 
as of 31 December [xxxx] that does not exceed USD 1 000 000. 
15. The term “High Value Account” means a Preexisting Individual Account with an aggregate balance or value 
that exceeds USD 1 000 000 as of 31 December [xxxx] or 31 December of any subsequent year. 
16. The term “New Entity Account” means a New Account held by one or more Entities. 
17. The term “Excluded Account” means any of the following accounts: 
a) a retirement or pension account that satisfies the following requirements: 
123 | P a g e 
i) the account is subject to regulation as a personal retirement account or is part of a registered or regulated 
retirement or pension plan for the provision of retirement or pension benefits (including disability or death 
benefits); 
ii) the account is tax-favoured (i.e. contributions to the account that would otherwise be subject to tax are 
deductible or excluded from the gross income of the account holder or taxed at a reduced rate, or 
taxation of investment income from the account is deferred or taxed at a reduced rate); 
iii) information reporting is required to the tax authorities with respect to the account; 
iv) withdrawals are conditioned on reaching a specified retirement age, disability, or death, or penalties 
apply to withdrawals made before such specified events; and 
v) either (i) annual contributions are limited to USD 50 000 or less, or (ii) there is a maximum lifetime 
contribution limit to the account of USD 1 000 000 or less, in each case applying the rules set forth in 
paragraph C of Section VII for account aggregation and currency translation. 
A Financial Account that otherwise satisfies the requirement of subparagraph C(17)(a)(v) will not fail to 
satisfy such requirement solely because such Financial Account may receive assets or funds transferred 
from one or more Financial Accounts that meet the requirements of subparagraph C(17)(a) or (b) or 
from one or more retirement or pension funds that meet the requirements of any of subparagraphs B(5) 
through (7). 
b) an account that satisfies the following requirements: 
i) 
the account is subject to regulation as an investment vehicle for purposes other than for retirement and 
is regularly traded on an established securities market, or the account is subject to regulation as a 
savings vehicle for purposes other than for retirement; 
ii) the account is tax-favoured (i.e. contributions to the account that would otherwise be subject to tax are 
deductible or excluded from the gross income of the account holder or taxed at a reduced rate, or 
taxation of investment income from the account is deferred or taxed at a reduced rate); 
iii) withdrawals are conditioned on meeting specific criteria related to the purpose of the investment or 
savings account (for example, the provision of educational or medical benefits), or penalties apply to 
withdrawals made before such criteria are met; and 
iv) annual contributions are limited to USD 50 000 or less, applying the rules set forth in paragraph C 
of Section VII for account aggregation and currency translation. 
A Financial Account that otherwise satisfies the requirement of subparagraph C(17)(b)(iv) will not fail to 
satisfy such requirement solely because such Financial Account may receive assets or funds transferred 
from one or more Financial Accounts that meet the requirements of subparagraph C(17)(a) or (b) or from 
one or more retirement or pension funds that meet the requirements of any of subparagraphs B(5) through 
(7). 
c) a life insurance contract with a coverage period that will end before the insured individual attains age 90, 
provided that the  contract satisfies the following requirements: 
i) periodic premiums, which do not decrease over time, are payable at least annually during the period the 
contract is in existence or until the insured attains age 90, whichever is shorter; 
ii) the contract has no contract value that any person can access (by withdrawal, loan, or otherwise) 
without terminating the contract; 
iii) the amount (other than a death benefit) payable upon cancellation or termination of the contract cannot 
exceed the aggregate premiums paid for the contract, less the sum of mortality, morbidity, and expense 
charges (whether or not actually imposed) for the period or periods of the contract’s existence and any 
amounts paid prior to the cancellation or termination of the contract; and 
iv) the contract is not held by a transferee for value. 
d) an account that is held solely by an estate if the documentation for such account includes a copy of the 
deceased’s will or death certificate. 
e) an account established in connection with any of the following: 
i) a court order or judgment. 
ii) a sale, exchange, or lease of real or personal property, provided that the account satisfies the following 
requirements: 
i) the account is funded solely with a down payment, earnest money, deposit in an amount 
appropriate to secure an obligation directly related to the transaction, or a similar payment, or is 
funded with a Financial Asset that is deposited in the account in connection with the sale, 
exchange, or lease of the property; 
124 | P a g e 
ii) the account is established and used solely to secure the obligation of the purchaser to pay the purchase 
price for the property, the seller to pay any contingent liability, or the lessor or lessee to pay for any 
damages relating to the leased property as agreed under the lease; 
iii) the assets of the account, including the income earned thereon, will be paid or otherwise distributed for 
the benefit of the purchaser, seller, lessor, or lessee 
(including to satisfy such person’s obligation) when the property is sold, exchanged, or 
surrendered, or the lease terminates; 
iv) the account is not a margin or similar account established in connection with a sale or 
exchange of a Financial Asset; and 
v) the account is not associated with an account described in subparagraph C(17)(f). 
iii) an obligation of a Financial Institution servicing a loan secured by real property to set aside a 
portion of a payment solely to facilitate the payment of taxes or insurance related to the real 
property at a later time. 
iv) an obligation of a Financial Institution solely to facilitate the payment of taxes at a later time. 
f) a Depository Account that satisfies the following requirements: 
i) 
the account exists solely because a customer makes a payment in excess of a balance due with 
respect to a credit card or other revolving credit facility and the overpayment is not 
immediately returned to the customer; and 
ii) beginning on or before [xx/xx/xxxx], the Financial Institution implements policies and 
procedures either to prevent a customer from making an overpayment in excess of USD 50 000, 
or to ensure that any customer overpayment in excess of USD 50 000 is refunded to the 
customer within 60 days, in each case applying the rules set forth in paragraph C of Section VII 
for currency translation. For this purpose, a customer overpayment does not refer to credit 
balances to the extent of disputed charges but does include credit balances resulting from 
merchandise returns. 
g) any other account that presents a low risk of being used to evade tax, has substantially similar 
characteristics to any of the accounts described in subparagraphs C(17)(a) through (f), and is 
defined in domestic law as an Excluded Account, provided that the status of such account as an 
Excluded Account does not frustrate the purposes of the Common Reporting Standard. 
D. Reportable Account 
1. The term “Reportable Account” means an account held by one or more Reportable Persons or by a 
Passive NFE with one or more Controlling Persons that is a Reportable Person, provided it has been 
identified as such pursuant to the due diligence procedures described in Sections II through VII. 
2. The term “Reportable Person” means a Reportable Jurisdiction Person other than: (i) a corporation the 
stock of which is regularly traded on one or more established securities markets; (ii) any corporation that is 
a Related Entity of a corporation described in clause (i); (iii) a Governmental Entity; (iv) an International 
Organisation; (v) a Central Bank; or (vi) a Financial Institution. 
3. The term “Reportable Jurisdiction Person” means an individual or Entity that is resident in a 
Reportable Jurisdiction under the tax laws of such jurisdiction, or an estate of a decedent that was a 
resident of a Reportable Jurisdiction. For this purpose, an Entity such as a partnership, limited liability 
partnership or similar legal arrangement that has no residence for tax purposes shall be treated as 
resident in the jurisdiction in which its place of effective management is situated. 
4. The term “Reportable Jurisdiction” means a jurisdiction (i) with which an agreement is in place 
pursuant to which there is an obligation in place to provide the information specified in Section I, and 
(ii) which is identified in a published list. 
5. The term “Participating Jurisdiction” means a jurisdiction (i) with which an agreement is in place 
pursuant to which it will provide the information specified in Section I, and (ii) which is identified in a 
published list. 
6. The term “Controlling Persons” means the natural persons who exercise control over an Entity. In the 
case of a trust, such term means the settlor(s), the trustee(s), the protector(s) (if any), the 
beneficiary(ies) or class(es) of beneficiaries, and any other natural person(s) exercising ultimate 
effective control over the trust, and in the case of a legal arrangement other than a trust, such term 
means persons in equivalent or similar positions. The term “Controlling Persons” must be interpreted in 
a manner consistent with the Financial Action Task Force Recommendations. 
7. The term “NFE” means any Entity that is not a Financial Institution. 
8. The term “Passive NFE” means any: (i) NFE that is not an Active NFE; or (ii) an Investment Entity 
described in subparagraph A(6)(b) that is not a Participating Jurisdiction Financial Institution. 
9. The term “Active NFE” means any NFE that meets any of the following criteria: 
a) less than 50% of the NFE’s gross income for the preceding calendar year or other appropriate 
125 | P a g e 
reporting period is passive income and less than 50% of the assets held by the NFE during the 
preceding calendar year or other appropriate reporting period are assets that produce or are held for 
the production of passive income; 
b) the stock of the NFE is regularly traded on an established securities market or the NFE is a Related 
Entity of an Entity the stock of which is regularly traded on an established securities market; 
c) the NFE is a Governmental Entity, an International Organisation, a Central Bank, or an Entity 
wholly owned by one or more of the foregoing; 
d) substantially all of the activities of the NFE consist of holding (in whole or in part) the outstanding 
stock of, or providing financing and services to, one or more subsidiaries that engage in trades or 
businesses other than the business of a Financial Institution, except that an Entity does not qualify 
for this status if the Entity functions (or holds itself out) as an investment fund, such as a private 
equity fund, venture capital fund, leveraged buyout fund, or any investment vehicle whose purpose 
is to acquire or fund companies and then hold interests in those companies as capital assets for 
investment purposes; 
e) the NFE is not yet operating a business and has no prior operating history, but is investing capital 
into assets with the intent to operate a business other than that of a Financial Institution, provided 
that the NFE does not qualify for this exception after the date that is 24 months after the date of the 
initial organisation of the NFE; 
f) the NFE was not a Financial Institution in the past five years, and is in the process of liquidating its 
assets or is reorganising with the intent to continue or recommence 
operations in a business other than that of a Financial Institution; 
g) the NFE primarily engages in financing and hedging transactions with, or for, Related Entities that are 
not Financial Institutions, and does not provide financing or hedging services to any Entity that is not a 
Related Entity, provided that the group of any such Related Entities is primarily engaged in a business 
other than that of a Financial Institution; or 
h) the NFE meets all of the following requirements: 
i) it is established and operated in its jurisdiction of residence exclusively for religious, charitable, 
scientific, artistic, cultural, athletic, or educational purposes; or it is established and operated in its 
jurisdiction of residence and it is a professional organisation, business league, chamber of 
commerce, labour organisation, agricultural or horticultural organisation, civic league or an 
organisation operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare; 
ii) it is exempt from income tax in its jurisdiction of residence; 
iii) 
it has no shareholders or members who have a proprietary or beneficial interest in its income 
or assets; 
iv) the applicable laws of the NFE’s jurisdiction of residence or the NFE’s formation documents do 
not permit any income or assets of the NFE to be distributed to, or applied for the benefit of, a 
private person or non-charitable Entity other than pursuant to the conduct of the NFE’s 
charitable activities, or as payment of reasonable compensation for services rendered, or as 
payment representing the fair market value of property which the NFE has purchased; and 
v) the applicable laws of the NFE’s jurisdiction of residence or the NFE’s formation documents 
require that, upon the NFE’s liquidation or dissolution, all of its assets be distributed to a 
Governmental Entity or other non-profit organisation, or escheat to the government of the NFE’s 
jurisdiction of residence or any political subdivision thereof. 
E. Miscellaneous 
1. The term “Account Holder” means the person listed or identified as the holder of a Financial Account by 
the Financial Institution that maintains the account. A person, other than a Financial Institution, holding a 
Financial Account for the benefit or account of another person as agent, custodian, nominee, signatory, 
investment advisor, or intermediary, is not treated as holding the account for purposes of the Common 
Reporting Standard, and such other person is treated as holding the account. In the case of a Cash Value 
Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract, the Account Holder is any person entitled to access the Cash 
Value or change the beneficiary of the contract. If no person can access the Cash Value or change the 
beneficiary, the Account Holder is any person named as the owner in the contract and any person with a 
vested entitlement to payment under the terms of the contract. Upon the maturity of a Cash Value 
Insurance Contract or an Annuity Contract, each person entitled to receive a payment under the contract is 
treated as an Account Holder. 
2. The term “AML/KYC Procedures” means the customer due diligence procedures of a Reporting 
Financial Institution pursuant to the anti-money laundering or similar requirements to which such 
Reporting Financial Institution is subject. 
3. The term “Entity” means a legal person or a legal arrangement, such as a corporation, partnership, trust, 
or foundation. 
4. An Entity is a “Related Entity” of another Entity if either Entity controls the other Entity, or the two 
126 | P a g e 
Entities are under common control. For this purpose control includes direct or indirect ownership of more 
than 50% of the vote and value in an Entity. 
5. The term “TIN” means Taxpayer Identification Number (or functional equivalent in the absence of a 
Taxpayer Identification Number). 
6. The term “Documentary Evidence” includes any of the following: 
a) a certificate of residence issued by an authorised government body (for example, a government or 
agency thereof, or a municipality) of the jurisdiction in which the payee claims to be a resident. 
b) with respect to an individual, any valid identification issued by an authorised government body (for 
example, a government or agency thereof, or a municipality), that includes the individual’s name and is 
typically used for identification purposes. 
c) with respect to an Entity, any official documentation issued by an authorised government body (for 
example, a government or agency thereof, or a municipality) that includes the name of the Entity 
and either the address of its principal office in the jurisdiction in which it claims to be a resident or 
the jurisdiction in which the Entity was incorporated or organised. 
d) any audited financial statement, third-party credit report, bankruptcy filing, or securities regulator’s 
report. 
Section IX: Effective Implementation 
A. A jurisdiction must have rules and administrative procedures in place to ensure effective implementation of, 
and compliance with, the reporting and due diligence procedures set out above including: 
1. rules to prevent any Financial Institutions, persons or intermediaries from adopting practices intended to 
circumvent the reporting and due diligence procedures; 
2. rules requiring Reporting Financial Institutions to keep records of the steps undertaken and any evidence 
relied upon for the performance of the above procedures and adequate measures to obtain those records; 
3. administrative procedures to verify Reporting Financial Institutions’ compliance with the reporting and due 
diligence procedures; administrative procedures to follow up with a Reporting Financial Institution when 
undocumented accounts are reported; 
4. administrative procedures to ensure that the Entities and accounts defined in domestic law as Non
Reporting Financial Institutions and Excluded Accounts continue to have a low risk of being used to 
evade tax; and 
5. effective enforcement provisions to address non-compliance.
127 | P a g e 
Appendix C : Rules 114F to 114H of Income-tax Rules, 1962 and Form 61B 
114F Definitions.- For the purpose of this rule and rules 114G and 114H,- 
(1) “financial account” means an account (other than an excluded account) maintained by a financial institution, and 
includes-  
(i) 
(ii) 
a depository account; 
a custodial account; 
(iii) in the case of an investment entity, any equity or debt interest in the financial institution.  
Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-clause “financial account” shall not include any equity interest or 
debt interest in an entity that is an investment entity solely because it,- 
(a) renders investment advice to, and acts on behalf of; or 
(b) manages portfolios for, and acts on behalf of,  
a customer for the purpose of investing, managing, or administering financial assets deposited in the name of 
the customer with a financial institution that is not a non-participating financial institution other than such 
entity; 
(iv) in the case of a financial institution not described in sub-clause (iii), any equity or debt interest in the financial 
institution, if the class of interests was established with a purpose of avoiding reporting in accordance with 
rule 114G and, in case of a U.S. reportable account, if the value of the debt or equity interest is determined, 
directly or indirectly, primarily by reference to assets that give rise to U.S. source withholdable payments; and 
(v) any cash value insurance contract and any annuity contract issued or maintained by a financial institution, 
other than a non-investment-linked, non-transferable immediate life annuity that is issued to an individual and 
monetises a pension or disability benefit provided under an account that is an excluded account. 
Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause,-  
(a) “depository account” includes any commercial, checking, savings, time, or thrift account, or an account that is 
evidenced by a certificate of deposit, thrift certificate, investment certificate, certificate of indebtedness, or 
other similar instrument maintained by a financial institution in the ordinary course of a banking or similar 
business and also an amount held by an insurance company pursuant to a guaranteed investment contract or 
similar agreement to pay or credit interest thereon; 
(b) “custodial account” means an account (other than an insurance contract or annuity contract) for the benefit of 
another person that holds one or more financial assets; 
(c) “equity interest” in a financial institution, being- 
(i) a partnership firm, means either a capital or profits interest in the partnership firm; 
(ii) a trust, means any interest held by any person treated as a settlor or beneficiary of all or a portion of the 
trust, or any other natural person exercising ultimate effective control over the trust;  
Explanation.- A person will be treated as a beneficiary of a trust if he has the right to receive directly or 
indirectly a mandatory distribution or may receive, directly or indirectly, a discretionary distribution from 
the trust. 
(d) “insurance contract” means a contract (other than an annuity contract) under which the issuer agrees to pay an 
amount upon the occurrence of a specified contingency involving mortality, morbidity, accident, liability, or 
property risk; 
(e) “annuity contract” means a contract under which the issuer agrees to make payments for a period of time 
determined in whole or in part by reference to the life expectancy of one or more individuals; 
(f) “cash value insurance contract” means an insurance contract (other than an indemnity reinsurance contract 
between two insurance companies) that has a cash value and in case of a U.S. reportable account such value is 
greater than an amount equivalent to fifty thousand U.S. dollars. 
Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause, a single premium life insurance contract which does not permit 
an amount to be paid on surrender or termination of the contract and which does not allow amounts to be 
borrowed under or with regard to the contract, shall not constitute a cash value insurance contract; 
(g) “cash value” means the greater of- 
(i) the amount that the policyholder is entitled to receive upon surrender or termination of the contract 
(determined without reduction for any surrender charge or policy loan); and  
(ii) the amount the policyholder can borrow under or with regard to the contract,  
but does not include an amount payable under an insurance contract,- 
(A) solely by reason of the death of an individual insured under a life insurance contract including a refund 
of a previously paid premium provided such refund is a limited risk refund; or 
(B) as a personal injury or sickness benefit or other benefit providing indemnification of an economic loss 
incurred upon the occurrence of the event insured against; or 
(C)  as a refund of a previously paid premium (less cost of insurance charges whether or not actually 
imposed) under an insurance contract (other than a life insurance contract or an annuity contract) due to 
cancellation or termination of the contract, decrease in risk exposure during the effective period of the 
128 | P a g e 
contract, or arising from the correction of a posting or similar error with regard to the premium for the 
contract; or 
(D) as a policyholder dividend (other than a termination dividend) provided that the dividend relates to an 
insurance contract under which the only benefits payable are described in sub-clause (ii); or  
(E) as a return of an advance premium or premium deposit for an insurance contract for which the premium 
is payable at least annually if the amount of the advance premium or premium deposit does not exceed 
the next annual premium which will be payable under the contract: 
Provided that the provisions contained in sub-clause (A) and sub-clause (E) shall not apply in case of a U.S. 
reportable account; 
(h) “excluded account” means,- 
(i) a retirement account or pension account that satisfies the following requirements, namely:- 
(A) the account is subject to regulation as a personal retirement account or is part of a registered or 
regulated retirement or pension plan for the provision of retirement or pension benefits (including 
disability or death benefits); 
(B) the account is tax-favoured where contributions to the account that would otherwise be subject to 
tax are deductible or excluded from the gross total income of the account holder or taxed at a 
reduced rate, or taxation of investment income from the account is deferred or taxed at a reduced 
rate; 
(C) information reporting is required to the income-tax authorities with respect to the account; 
(D) withdrawals are conditioned on reaching a specified retirement age, disability, or death, or 
penalties apply to withdrawals made before such specified events; and 
(E) either annual contributions are limited to an amount equivalent to fifty thousand U.S. dollars or 
less, or there is maximum lifetime contribution limit to the account of an amount equivalent to one 
million U.S. dollars or less, in each case applying the rules specified in clause (c) of sub-rule (7) of 
rule 114H for account aggregation and currency translation. 
Explanation.- A financial account that otherwise satisfies the requirements of item (E) will not fail 
to satisfy such requirements solely because such financial account may receive assets or funds 
transferred from one or more financial accounts that meet the requirements of item (A) or (B) or 
from one or more retirement or pension funds that meets with the requirements of clauses (e), (f) 
or (g) of Explanation to clause (1); 
(ii) an account that satisfies the following requirements, namely:- 
(A) the account is subject to regulation as a savings vehicle for purposes other than for retirement, or 
the account (other than U.S. reportable account) is subject to regulation as an investment vehicle for 
purposes other than for retirement and is regularly traded on an established securities market;  
(B) the account is tax-favoured where contributions to the account that will otherwise be subject to tax 
are deductible or excluded from the total income of the account holder or taxed at a reduced rate, or 
taxation of investment income from the account is deferred or taxed at a reduced rate;  
(C) withdrawals are conditioned on meeting specific criteria related to the purpose of the investment or 
savings account (for example, the provision of educational or medical benefits), or penalties apply 
to withdrawals made before such criteria are met; and 
(D) annual contributions are limited to an amount equivalent to fifty thousand U.S. dollars or less, 
applying the rules specified in clause (c) of sub-rule (7) of rule 114H for account aggregation and 
currency translation. 
Explanation.- A financial account that otherwise satisfies the requirements of item (D) will not fail 
to satisfy such requirements solely because such financial account may receive assets or funds 
transferred from one or more financial accounts that meet the requirements of item (A) or (B) or 
from one or more retirement or pension funds that meets the requirements of clauses (e), (f) or (g) 
of Explanation to clause (1) of this rule; 
(iii) an account established under the Senior Citizens Savings Scheme Rules, 2004 made under the 
Government Savings Banks Act, 1873 (5 of 1873). 
(iv) a life insurance contract with a coverage period that will end before the insured individual attains age of 
ninety years, provided that the contract satisfies the following requirements, namely:- 
(A) periodic premiums, which do not decrease over time, are payable at least annually during the period 
the contract is in existence or until the insured attains age of ninety years, whichever is shorter;  
(B) the contract has no contract value that any person can access (by withdrawal, loan, or otherwise) 
without terminating the contract;  
(C) the amount (other than a death benefit) payable upon cancellation or termination of the contract 
cannot exceed the aggregate premiums paid for the contract, less the sum of mortality, morbidity, 
and expense charges (whether or not actually imposed) for the period or periods of the contract’s 
existence and any amounts paid prior to the cancellation or termination of the contract; and 
(D) the contract is not held by a transferee for value; 
(v) an account that is held solely by an estate if the documentation for such account includes a copy of the 
deceased’s will or death certificate; 
(vi) an account established in connection with any of the following: 
129 | P a g e 
(A) a court order or judgment; 
(B) a sale, exchange, or lease of real or personal property, provided that the account satisfies the 
following requirements, namely:- 
(a) the account is funded solely with a down payment, earnest money, deposit in an amount 
appropriate to secure an obligation directly related to the transaction, or a similar payment, or 
is funded with a financial asset that is deposited in the account in connection with the sale, 
exchange, or lease of the property; 
(b) the account is established and used solely to secure the obligation of the purchaser to pay the 
purchase price for the property, the seller to pay any contingent liability, or the lessor or 
lessee to pay for any damages relating to the leased property as agreed under the lease; 
(c) the assets of the account, including the income earned thereon, will be paid or otherwise 
distributed for the benefit of the purchaser, seller, lessor, or lessee (including to satisfy such 
person’s obligation) when the property is sold, exchanged, or surrendered, or the lease 
terminates; 
(d) the account is not a margin or similar account established in connection with a sale or 
exchange of a financial asset; and 
(e) the account is not associated with a depository account referred to in sub-clause (vii); 
(C) an obligation of a financial institution servicing a loan secured by real property to set aside a 
portion of a payment solely to facilitate the payment of taxes or insurance related to the real 
property at a later time; 
(D) an obligation of a financial institution solely to facilitate the payment of taxes at a later time; 
(vii) in the case of an account other than a U.S. reportable account, a depository account that satisfies the 
following requirements, namely:- 
(A) the account exists solely because a customer makes a payment in excess of a balance due with 
respect to a credit card or other revolving credit facility and the overpayment is not immediately 
returned to the customer; and 
(B) beginning on or before the 31st December, 2015, the financial institution implements its policies 
and procedures either to prevent a customer from making an overpayment in excess of an amount 
equivalent to fifty thousand U.S. dollars, or to ensure that any customer overpayment in excess of 
an amount equivalent to fifty thousand U.S. dollars is refunded to the customer within sixty days, 
in each case applying the rules specified in clause (c) of sub-rule (7) of rule 114H for account 
aggregation and currency translation and for this purpose, a customer overpayment does not refer 
to credit balances to the extent of disputed charges but includes credit balances resulting from 
merchandise returns; 
(2) “financial asset” includes a security (for example, a share of stock in a corporation; partnership or beneficial 
ownership interest in a widely held or publicly traded partnership or trust; note, bond, debenture, or other evidence of 
indebtedness), partnership interest, commodity, swap (for example, interest rate swaps, currency swaps, basis swaps, 
interest rate caps, interest rate floors, commodity swaps, equity swaps, equity index swaps, and similar agreements), 
insurance contract or annuity contract, or any interest (including a futures or forward contract or option) in a security, 
partnership interest, commodity, swap, insurance contract, or annuity contract: 
Provided that “financial asset” shall not include a non-debt and direct interest in an immovable property; 
(3) “financial institution” means a custodial institution, a depository institution, an investment entity, or a specified 
insurance company. 
Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause,-  
(a) “custodial institution” means any entity that holds, as a substantial portion of its business, financial assets for 
the account of others and where its income attributable to the holding of financial assets and related financial 
services equals or exceeds twenty per cent. of its gross income during the three financial years preceding the 
year in which determination is made or the period during which the entity has been in existence, whichever is 
less; 
(b) “depository institution” means any entity that accepts deposits in the ordinary course of a banking or similar 
business; 
(c) “investment entity” means any entity,- 
(A) that primarily conducts as a business one or more of the following activities or operations for or on behalf 
of a customer, namely:- 
(i) 
(ii)  
trading in money market instruments (cheques, bills, certificates of deposit, derivatives, etc.); 
foreign exchange; exchange, interest rate and index instruments; transferable securities; or 
commodity futures trading; or 
individual and collective portfolio management; or 
(iii) otherwise investing, administering, or managing financial assets or money on behalf of other 
persons; or 
(B) the gross income of which is primarily attributable to investing, reinvesting, or trading in financial assets, 
if the entity is managed by another entity that is a depository institution, a custodial institution, a specified 
insurance company, or an investment entity mentioned in sub-clause (A) of this clause. 
130 | P a g e 
Explanation 1.- An entity is treated as primarily conducting as a business one or more of the activities 
described in sub-clause (A) of this clause, or an entity’s gross income is primarily attributable to investing, 
reinvesting, or trading in financial assets for purposes of sub-clause (B) of this clause, if the entity’s gross 
income attributable to the relevant activities equals or exceeds fifty per cent. of the gross income of the entity 
during the shorter of the three-year period ending on 31st March of the year preceding the year in which the 
determination is made or the period during which the entity has been in existence.  
Explanation 2.- The term “investment entity” shall not include an entity that is an active non-financial entity 
merely because it meets any of the criteria provided in sub-clauses (iv), (v), (vi) or (vii) of clause (A) of 
Explanation to clause (6) of this rule; 
(d) “specified insurance company” means any entity that is an insurance company (or the holding company of an 
insurance company) that issues, or is obligated to make payments with respect to, a Cash Value Insurance 
Contract or an Annuity Contract; 
(4)  “non-participating financial institution” means a financial institution defined in clause (r) of Article 1 of the 
agreement between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the United States of America to 
improve international tax compliance and to implement Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act of the United States of 
America (herein after referred to as the FATCA agreement), but does not include,- 
(c)  
an Indian financial institution; or 
(d)  
other jurisdiction, being a jurisdiction that has in effect an agreement with the United States of America to 
facilitate the implementation of  Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (herein after referred to as other 
partner jurisdiction), financial institution, 
other than a financial institution treated as a non-participating financial institution pursuant to sub-paragraph (b) of 
paragraph 2 of Article 5 of the FATCA agreement or the corresponding provision in an agreement between the 
United States of America and other partner jurisdiction; 
(5) “non-reporting financial institution” means any financial institution that is,- 
(a) a Governmental entity, International Organisation or Central Bank, other than with respect to a payment that 
is derived from an obligation held in connection with a commercial financial activity of a type engaged in by 
a specified insurance company, custodial institution, or depository institution; 
(b) a Treaty Qualified Retirement Fund; a Broad Participation Retirement Fund; a Narrow Participation 
Retirement Fund; or a Pension Fund of a Governmental entity, International Organization or Central Bank; 
(c) a non-public fund of the armed forces, Employees’ State Insurance Fund, a gratuity fund or a provident fund; 
(d) an entity that is an Indian financial institution only because it is an investment entity, provided that each direct 
holder of an equity interest in the entity is a financial institution referred to in sub-clauses (a) to (c), and each 
direct holder of a debt interest in such entity is either a depository institution (with respect to a loan made to 
such entity) or a financial institution referred to in sub-clauses (a) to (c); 
(e) a qualified credit card issuer; 
(f) an investment entity established in India that is a financial institution only because it,-  
(I) renders investment advice to, and acts on behalf of; or  
(II) manages portfolios for, and acts on behalf of; or  
(III) executes trades on behalf of,  
a customer for the purposes of investing, managing, or administering funds or securities deposited in the name 
of the customer with a financial institution other than a non-participating financial institution; 
(g) an exempt collective investment vehicle; 
(h) a trust established under any law for the time being in force to the extent that the trustee of the trust is a 
reporting financial institution and reports all information required to be reported under rule 114G with respect 
to all reportable accounts of the trust; 
(i) 
a financial institution with a local client base; 
(j) 
a local bank; 
(k) a financial institution with only low-value accounts; 
(l) 
sponsored investment entity and controlled foreign corporation, in case of any U.S. reportable account; or 
(m) sponsored closely held investment vehicle, in case of any U.S. reportable account. 
Explanation.- For the purpose of this clause,- 
(A) “Governmental entity” means the Government of a country or territory, any political subdivision of a country 
or territory (including a state, province, county, or municipality), or any wholly owned agency or 
instrumentality or controlled entity of a country or territory or of any one or more of the foregoing (where 
each is also a “Governmental entity”) and includes the integral parts, controlled entities, and political 
subdivisions of such country or territory. 
Explanation.- For the purpose of clause (A),- 
(i) 
an “integral part” of a country or territory means any person, organisation, agency, bureau, fund, 
instrumentality, or other body, by whatever name called, that constitutes a governing authority of a 
country or territory and the net earnings of the governing authority must be credited to its own account 
or to other accounts of the country or territory, with no portion inuring to the benefit of any private 
person: 
Provided that an integral part does not include any individual who is a sovereign, official, or 
administrator acting in a private or personal capacity: 
131 | P a g e 
Provided further that the income does not inure to the benefit of private persons if such persons are the 
intended beneficiaries of a Governmental programme, and the programme activities are performed for 
the general public with respect to the common welfare or relate to the administration of a Department of 
Government: 
Provided also that income is considered to inure to the benefit of private persons if the income is derived 
from the Governmental entity engaged in a commercial business, such as a commercial banking 
business, which provides financial services to private persons; 
(ii) 
a controlled entity means an entity that is separate in form from the country or territory or that otherwise 
constitutes a separate juridical entity: 
Provided that- 
(a) the entity is wholly owned and controlled by one or more Governmental entities directly or through 
one or more controlled entities; 
(b) the entity’s net earnings are credited to its own account or to the accounts of one or more 
Governmental entities, with no portion of its income inuring to the benefit of any private person; 
and 
(c) the entity’s assets vest in one or more Governmental entities upon dissolution: 
Provided further that the income does not inure to the benefit of private persons if such persons are the 
intended beneficiaries of a Governmental programme, and the programme activities are performed for 
the general public with respect to the common welfare or relate to the administration of a Department of 
Government: 
Provided also that income is considered to inure to the benefit of private persons if the income is 
derived from Governmental entity engaged in a commercial business, such as a commercial banking 
business, which provides financial services to private persons; 
(B) “International Organisation” means any international organization or wholly owned agency or instrumentality 
thereof including any inter-Governmental organisation,-  
(a) that is comprised primarily of Governments;  
(b) that has in effect a headquarters or substantially similar agreement with India; and  
(c) the income of which does not inure to the benefit of private persons; 
(C) “Central Bank” means a bank that is by law or Government sanction the principal authority, other than the 
Government of the country or territory itself, issuing instruments intended to circulate as currency including 
an instrumentality that is separate from the Government of the country or territory, whether or not owned in 
whole or in part by that country or territory; 
(D) “Treaty Qualified Retirement Fund” means a fund established in India, provided that the fund is entitled to 
benefits under an agreement between India and the Government of any country or territory outside India on 
income that it derives from sources within such country or territory outside India (or would be entitled to such 
benefits if it derived any such income) as a resident of India that satisfies any applicable limitation on benefits 
requirement, and is operated principally to administer or provide pension or retirement benefits; 
(E) “Broad Participation Retirement Fund” means a fund established to provide retirement, disability, or death 
benefits, or any combination thereof, to beneficiaries who are current or former employees (or persons 
nominated by such employees) of one or more employers in consideration for services rendered: 
Provided that the fund,- 
(i) 
does not have any beneficiary with a right to more than five per cent. of the fund’s assets; 
(ii)  
(iii)  
is subject to Government regulation and provides information reporting to the income-tax authorities; 
and 
satisfies at least one of the following requirements, namely:- 
(a) 
the fund is generally exempt from tax on investment income, or taxation of such income is 
deferred or taxed at a reduced rate, due to its status as a retirement or pension plan; 
(b) the fund receives at least fifty per cent of its total contributions [other than transfer of assets from 
other plans referred to in clauses (D) to (G) or from retirement and pension accounts referred to in 
sub-clause (i) of clause (h) of Explanation to clause (1)] from the sponsoring employers; 
(c) 
distributions or withdrawals from the fund are allowed only in the event of retirement, disability or 
death [except rollover distributions to other retirement funds referred to in clauses (E) to (G), or 
retirement and pension accounts referred to in sub-clause (i) of clause (h) of Explanation to clause 
(1)], or penalties which apply to distributions or withdrawals made before such events; or 
(d) contributions (other than permitted make-up contributions) by employees to the fund are limited 
by reference to earned income of the employee or may not exceed an amount equivalent to fifty 
thousand U.S. dollars annually, applying the procedures set forth in clause (c) of sub-rule (7) of 
rule 114H for account aggregation and currency translation; 
(F) “Narrow Participation Retirement Fund” means a fund established to provide retirement, disability, or death 
benefits to beneficiaries who are current or former employees (or persons nominated by such employees) of 
one or more employers in consideration for services rendered:  
Provided that,- 
(i) 
the fund has less than fifty participants; 
132 | P a g e 
(ii) 
the fund is sponsored by one or more employers who are not investment entities or passive non
financial entities; 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
the employee and employer contributions to the fund [other than transfer of assets from retirement and 
pension accounts referred to in sub-clause (i) of clause (h) of Explanation to clause (1)] are limited by 
reference to earned income and compensation of the employee, respectively; 
participants who are not residents in India are not entitled to more than twenty per cent of the fund’s 
assets; and 
the fund is subject to Government regulation and provides information reporting to the income-tax 
authorities; 
(G) “Pension Fund of a Governmental entity, International Organisation or Central Bank” means a fund 
established by a Governmental entity, International Organisation or Central Bank to provide retirement, 
disability or death benefits to beneficiaries or participants who are current or former employees (or persons 
nominated by such employees), or who are not current or former employees, if the benefits provided to such 
beneficiaries or participants are in consideration of personal services rendered to the Governmental entity, 
International Organisation or Central Bank; 
(H) “non-public fund of the armed forces” means a fund established in India as a regimental fund or non-public 
fund by the armed forces of the Union of India for the welfare of the current and former members of the 
armed forces and whose income is exempt from tax under clause (23AA) of section 10 of the Act; 
(I) 
“Employees’ State Insurance Fund” means the fund established as Employees’ State Insurance Fund under 
the provisions of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), to provide medical expenses of low
income factory workers in India; 
(J) 
“gratuity fund” means a fund established under the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (39 of 1972), to provide 
for the payment of a gratuity to certain types of employees of an Indian employer specified in the Payment of 
Gratuity Act, 1972; 
(K) “provident fund” means a fund established under the Provident Funds Act, 1925 (19 of 1925) or the 
Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) to provide current and 
former employees of Indian employers retirement benefits in consideration for services rendered: 
Provided that fund,- 
5. 
does not have any beneficiary with a right to more than five per cent. of the fund’s assets;  
6. 
7. 
8. 
is subject to Government regulation and provides annual information reporting about its beneficiaries to 
the income- tax authorities;  
is generally exempt from tax on investment income due to its status as a provident fund;  and 
contributions (other than permitted make-up contributions) by employees to the fund are limited by 
reference to earned income of the employee or may not exceed an amount equivalent to fifty thousand 
U.S. dollars annually, applying the procedures set forth in clause (c) of sub-rule (7) of rule 114H for 
account aggregation and currency translation; 
(L) “qualified credit card issuer” means a financial institution satisfying the following requirements, namely:- 
(i) 
it is a financial institution only because it is an issuer of credit cards and accepts deposits only when a 
customer makes a payment in excess of a balance due with respect to the card and the overpayment is 
not immediately returned to the customer; and 
(ii) 
beginning on or before the 1st July, 2014, the financial institution implements policies and procedures 
either to prevent a customer from making an overpayment in excess of an amount equivalent to fifty 
thousand U.S. dollars or to ensure that any customer overpayment in excess of an amount equivalent to 
fifty thousand U.S. dollars is refunded to the customer within sixty days, in each case applying the rules 
set forth in clause (c) of sub-rule (7) of rule 114H for account aggregation and currency translation.  
Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-clause, a customer overpayment does not refer to credit 
balances to the extent of disputed charges but includes credit balances resulting from merchandise 
returns; 
(M) “exempt collective investment vehicle” means an investment entity that is regulated as a collective investment 
vehicle, provided that all of the interests in the collective investment vehicle are held by or through persons 
other than,-  
(i)  
those referred to in sub-clauses (a) to (c) of clause (6); and 
(ii)  
a non-participating financial institution. 
Explanation.- An investment entity which is regulated as a collective investment vehicle does not fail to 
qualify under this clause as an exempt collective investment vehicle, only because it has issued physical 
shares in bearer form: 
Provided that- 
(i) 
the collective investment vehicle has not issued, and does not issue, any physical shares in bearer form 
after the 31st December, 2012;  
(ii)  
the collective investment vehicle retires all such shares upon surrender;  
(iii) the collective investment vehicle performs the due diligence procedures set forth in rule 114H and 
reports any information required to be reported with respect to any such shares when such shares are 
presented for redemption or other payment; and 
133 | P a g e 
(iv) the collective investment vehicle has in place policies and procedures to ensure that such shares are 
redeemed or immobilised as soon as possible, and in any event prior to the 1st January, 2017; 
(N) “financial institution with a local client base” means a financial institution satisfying the following 
requirements, namely:- 
(i) 
it has been granted a license and is regulated as a financial institution under any law for the time being 
in force;  
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
(vi) 
(vii)  
the financial institution does not have a fixed place of business outside India.   
Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-clause, a fixed place of business does not include a location 
that is not advertised to the public and from which the financial institution performs only 
administrative support functions; and 
the financial institution does not solicit customers or account holders outside India.   
Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-clause, a financial institution shall not be considered to have 
solicited customers or account holders outside India merely because the financial institution,- 
(a) operates a website, provided that the website does not specifically indicate that the financial 
institution provides financial accounts or services to non-residents, and does not otherwise target or 
solicit customers or account holders who are resident of any country or territory outside India for tax 
purposes; or  
(b) advertises in print media or on a radio or television station which is distributed or aired primarily 
within India but is also incidentally distributed or aired in other countries, provided that the 
advertisement does not specifically indicate that the financial institution provides financial accounts or 
services to non-residents, and does not otherwise target or solicit customers or account holders who are 
resident of any country or territory outside India for tax purposes;  
the financial institution is required under any law for the time being in force to identify resident 
account holders for purposes of either information reporting or withholding of tax with respect to 
financial accounts held by residents or for purposes of satisfying the due diligence requirements under 
the Prevention of Money-laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003);  
at least ninety eight per cent. of the financial accounts by value maintained by the financial institution 
are held by residents;  
beginning on or before the 30th June, 2014, the policies and procedures of the financial institution are 
consistent with those set forth in rule 114H, to prevent the financial institution from providing a 
financial account to any non-participating financial institution and to monitor whether the financial 
institution opens or maintains a financial account for any reportable person who is not a resident of 
India (including a non-resident who was a resident of India when the financial account was opened but 
subsequently ceases to be a resident of India) or any passive non-financial entity with controlling 
persons who are reportable persons;  
such policies and procedures explicitly provide that if any financial account held by a reportable 
person who is not a resident of India or by a passive non-financial entity with controlling persons who 
are reportable persons who are not resident of India is identified, the financial institution shall report 
such financial account as would be required if the financial institution was a reporting financial 
institution or close such financial account;  
(viii) with respect to a pre-existing account held by an individual who is not a resident of India or by an 
entity, the financial institution shall review those pre-existing accounts in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in rule 114H applicable to pre-existing accounts to identify any reportable account 
or financial account held by a non-participating financial institution, and shall report such financial 
account as would be required if the financial institution were a reporting financial institution or close 
such financial account;  
(ix) 
(x)  
each related entity of the financial institution that is a financial institution must be incorporated or 
organised in India and, with the exception of any related entity that is a retirement fund referred to in 
clauses (D) to (G) of this Explanation, satisfies the requirements set forth in this clause; and 
the financial institution must not have policies or practices which discriminate against opening or 
maintaining financial accounts for individuals who are specified U.S. persons and residents of India; 
(O) “local bank” means a financial institution satisfying the following requirements, namely:- 
(i) 
the financial institution operates only as (and is licensed and regulated under any law for the time being 
in force) a bank, or  a credit union or similar cooperative credit organisation which is operated without 
profit;  
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
the business of the financial institution consists primarily of receiving deposits from and making loans 
to, with respect to a bank, unrelated retail customers and, with respect to a credit union or similar 
cooperative credit organisation, members, provided that no member has a greater than five per cent. 
interest in such credit union or cooperative credit organisation;  
the financial institution satisfies the requirements set forth in sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) of clause (N), 
provided that, in addition to the limitations on the website referred to in sub-clause (iii) of clause (N), 
the website does not permit the opening of a financial account;  
the financial institution does not have more than an amount equivalent to one hundred seventy-five 
million U.S. dollars in assets on its balance sheet, and the financial institution and any related entity, 
134 | P a g e 
taken together, does not have more than an amount equivalent to five hundred million U.S. dollars in 
total assets on its consolidated or combined balance sheets; and 
(v) 
any related entity must be incorporated or organised in India, and any related entity that is a financial 
institution, with the exception of any related entity that is a retirement fund referred to in clauses (D) to 
(G) or a financial institution with only low-value accounts referred to in clause (P), must satisfy the 
requirements set forth in this clause. 
Explanation.- Regional Rural Banks constituted under the Regional Rural Bank Act 1976 (21 of 1976), Urban 
Cooperative Banks constituted under respective State Cooperative Societies Acts or Multi State Cooperative 
Societies Act, State Cooperative Banks or District Central Cooperative Banks constituted under respective 
State Cooperative Societies Act and Local Area Banks licensed under the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 (10 
of 1949) and regulated and registered as public limited companies under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) 
or Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), that satisfy the requirement under sub-clause (iv) shall be treated as 
local bank for the purpose of this clause; 
(P) “financial institution with only low-value accounts” means a financial institution satisfying the following 
requirements, namely:- 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
the financial institution is not an investment entity;  
no financial account maintained by the financial institution or any related entity has a balance or value 
in excess of an amount equivalent to fifty thousand U.S. dollars, applying the procedures prescribed in 
clause (c) of sub-rule (7) of rule 114H for account aggregation and currency translation; and  
the financial institution does not have more than fifty million U.S. dollars in assets on its balance sheet, 
and the financial institution and any related entities, taken together, do not have more than fifty million 
U.S. dollars in total assets on their consolidated or combined balance sheets. 
(Q) “sponsored investment entity and controlled foreign corporation” means a financial institution described in 
the following sub-clauses, namely:- 
(i) 
(ii)  
a financial institution is a sponsored investment entity if-  
(a) it is an investment entity established in India that is not a qualified intermediary (being an 
intermediary that is a party to a withholding agreement with the United States of America), 
withholding foreign partnership, or withholding foreign trust; and  
(b) an entity has agreed with the financial institution to act as a sponsoring entity for the financial 
institution; 
a financial institution is a sponsored controlled foreign corporation if- 
(a) the financial institution is a controlled foreign corporation established under any law for the time 
being in force in India that is not a qualified intermediary (being an intermediary which is a party to 
a withholding agreement with the United States of America), withholding foreign partnership, or 
withholding foreign trust;  
(b) the financial institution is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by a reporting U.S. financial 
institution referred to in Article 1 of the FATCA agreement that agrees to act, or requires an 
affiliate of the financial institution to act, as a sponsoring entity for the financial institution; and  
(c) the financial institution shares a common electronic account system with the sponsoring entity that 
enables the sponsoring entity to identify all account holders and payees of the financial institution 
and to access all account and customer information maintained by the financial institution 
including, but not limited to, customer identification information, customer documentation, account 
balance, and all payments made to the account holder or payee, 
and that complies with the following requirements namely:-   
(I) 
the sponsoring entity is authorised to act on behalf of the financial institution (such as a fund manager, 
trustee, corporate director, or managing partner) to fulfil applicable registration requirements of the 
United States of America;  
(II) the sponsoring entity has registered as a sponsoring entity with the United States of America;  
(III) if the sponsoring entity identifies any U.S. reportable account with respect to the financial institution, 
the sponsoring entity registers the financial institution pursuant to applicable registration requirements 
of the United States of America on or before the 31st December, 2015 or the date that is ninety days 
after such U.S. reportable account is first identified, whichever is later;  
(IV) the sponsoring entity agrees to perform, on behalf of the financial institution, all due diligence, 
withholding, reporting, and other requirements that the financial institution would have been required to 
perform if it were a reporting financial institution;  
(V) the sponsoring entity identifies the financial institution and includes the identifying number of the 
financial institution (obtained by following applicable registration requirements of the United States of 
America) in all its reporting completed on the financial institution’s behalf; and 
(VI) the sponsoring entity has not had its status as a sponsor revoked; 
(R) “sponsored, closely held investment vehicle” means a financial institution satisfying the following 
requirements, namely:- 
(i) 
it is a financial institution only because it is an investment entity and is not a qualified intermediary 
(being an intermediary that is a party to a withholding agreement with the United States of America), 
withholding foreign partnership, or withholding foreign trust;  
135 | P a g e 
(ii) 
the sponsoring entity is a reporting U.S. financial institution referred to in Article 1 of the FATCA 
agreement, reporting financial institution, or participating foreign financial institution defined in Annex 
II of the FATCA agreement, is authorised to act on behalf of the financial institution (such as a 
professional manager, trustee, or managing partner), and agrees to perform, on behalf of the financial 
institution, all due diligence, withholding, reporting, and other requirements which the financial 
institution would have been required to perform if it were a reporting financial institution;  
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
the financial institution does not act as an investment vehicle for unrelated parties;  
twenty or less than twenty individuals own all the debt interests and equity interests in the financial 
institution (other than debt interests owned by participating foreign financial institution defined in 
Annex II of the FATCA agreement and non-reporting financial institutions and equity interests owned 
by an entity if that entity owns hundred per cent. of the equity interests in the financial institution and 
is itself a sponsored financial institution described in this clause); and 
the sponsoring entity complies with the following requirements, namely:- 
(a) it has been registered as a sponsoring entity in terms of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act 
of  the United States of America;  
(b) the sponsoring entity agrees to perform, on behalf of the financial institution, all due diligence, 
withholding, reporting, and other requirements that the financial institution would have been 
required to perform if it were a reporting financial institution and retains documentation collected 
with respect to the financial institution for a period of six years;  
(c) the sponsoring entity identifies the financial institution in all its reporting completed on the 
financial institution’s behalf; and  
(d) the sponsoring entity has not had its status as a sponsor revoked; 
(6) “reportable account” means a financial account which has been identified, pursuant to the due diligence procedures 
provided in rule 114H, as held by,- 
(a)  a reportable person; or 
(b)  an entity, not based in United Sates of America, with one or more controlling persons that is a specified U.S. 
person; or 
(c) a passive non-financial entity with one or more controlling persons that is a person described in sub-clause (b) 
of clause (8) of this rule. 
Explanation.- For the purpose of this clause,- 
(A) “active non-financial entity” means any non-financial entity which fulfils any of the following criteria, 
namely:- 
(i) 
less than fifty per cent of the entity’s gross income for the preceding financial year is passive income 
and less than fifty per cent of the assets held by the entity during the preceding financial year are assets 
that produce or are held for the production of passive income; or 
(ii) 
(iii) 
the stock of the entity is regularly traded on an established securities market or the non-financial entity 
is a related entity of an entity, the stock of which is regularly traded on an established securities market. 
Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-clause, an established securities market means an exchange 
that is recognised and supervised by a Governmental authority in which the securities market is located 
and that has a meaningful annual value of shares traded on the exchange; 
the entity is a Governmental entity, an International Organization, a Central Bank, or an entity wholly 
owned by one or more of these entities; or 
(iv) substantially all of the activities of the entity consist of holding (in whole or in part) the outstanding 
stock of, or providing financing and services to, one or more subsidiaries that engage in trades or 
businesses other than the business of a financial institution: 
Provided that an entity shall not qualify for this status if it functions as an investment fund, such as a 
private equity fund, venture capital fund, leveraged buyout fund, or any investment vehicle whose 
purpose is to acquire or fund companies and then hold interests in those companies as capital assets for 
investment purposes; or 
(v) 
the entity is not yet operating a business and has no prior operating history, but is investing capital into 
assets with the intent to operate a business other than that of a financial institution, provided that the 
entity shall not qualify for this exception after the date that is twenty four months after the date of the 
initial organisation of the entity; or 
(vi) the entity was not a financial institution in the past five years, and is in the process of liquidating its 
assets or is reorganising with intent to continue or recommence operations in a business other than that 
of a financial institution; or 
(vii) the entity primarily engages in financing and hedging transactions with, or for, related entities which are 
not financial institutions, and does not provide financing or hedging services to any entity which is not a 
related entity, provided that the group of any such related entities is primarily engaged in a business 
other than that of a financial institution; or 
(viii) the entity fulfils all of the following requirements, namely:- 
(a) it is established and operated in India exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, artistic, 
cultural, athletic, or educational purposes; or it is established and operated in India and it is a 
professional organisation, business league, chamber of commerce, labour organisation, agricultural 
136 | P a g e 
or horticultural organisation, civic league or an organisation operated exclusively for the promotion 
of social welfare; 
(b) it is exempt from income-tax in India; 
(c) it has no shareholders or members who have a proprietary or beneficial interest in its income or 
assets; 
(d) the applicable laws of the entity’s country or territory of residence or the entity’s formation 
documents do not permit any income or assets of the entity to be distributed to, or applied for the 
benefit of, a private person or non-charitable entity other than pursuant to the conduct of the entity’s 
charitable activities, or as payment of reasonable compensation for services rendered, or as payment 
representing the fair market value of property which the entity has purchased; and 
(e) the applicable laws of the entity’s country or territory of residence or the entity’s formation 
documents require that, upon the entity’s liquidation or dissolution, all of its assets must be 
distributed to a Governmental entity or other non-profit organization, or escheat to the Government 
of the entity’s country or territory of residence or any political sub-division thereof. 
Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-clause, the following shall be treated as fulfilling the criteria 
provided in the said sub-clause, namely:- 
(I) 
an Investor Protection Fund referred to in clause (23EA); 
(II) a Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Small Industries referred to in clause 23EB; and 
(III) an Investor Protection Fund referred to in clause (23EC), 
of section 10 of the Act; 
(B) “controlling person” means the natural person who exercises control over an entity and includes a beneficial 
owner as determined under sub-rule (3) of rule 9 of the Prevention of Money-laundering (Maintenance of 
Records) Rules, 2005.  
Explanation 1.- In determining the beneficial owner, the procedure specified in the following circular as 
amended from time to time shall be applied, namely:- 
(i) 
DBOD.AML.BC. No.71/14.01.001/2012-13, issued on the 18th January, 2013 by the Reserve Bank of 
India; or 
(ii) CIR/MIRSD/2/2013, issued on the 24th January, 2013 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India; or 
(iii) IRDA/SDD/GDL/CIR/019/02/2013, issued on the 4th February, 2013 by the Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority. 
Explanation 2.- In the case of a trust, the controlling person means the settlor, the trustees, the protector (if 
any), the beneficiaries or class of beneficiaries, and any other natural person exercising ultimate effective 
control over the trust, and in the case of a legal arrangement other than a trust, the said expression means the 
person in equivalent or similar position; 
(C) “non-financial entity” means any entity that is not a financial institution; 
(D) “passive non-financial entity” means,-  
(iv) any non-financial entity which is not an active non-financial entity; or  
(v) 
an investment entity described in sub-clause (B) of clause (c) of the Explanation to clause (3), which is 
not located in any of the jurisdictions specified by the Central Board of Direct Taxes in this behalf; or 
(vi) not a withholding foreign partnership or withholding foreign trust; 
(E) an entity is a “related entity” of another entity if either entity controls the other entity, or the two entities are 
under common control.  
Explanation.- For the purpose of this clause control includes direct or indirect ownership of more than fifty 
per cent. of the votes and value in an entity; 
(F) “passive income” includes income by way of,- 
(i) 
dividends; 
(ii) 
(iii)  
(iv)  
(v)  
(vi)  
interest;  
income equivalent to interest;  
rents and royalties (other than rents and royalties derived in the active conduct of a business conducted, 
at least in part, by employees of the non-financial entity);  
annuities;  
the excess of gains over losses from the sale or exchange of financial assets which gives rise to the 
passive income;  
(vii) the excess of gains over losses from transactions (including futures, forwards, options, and similar 
transactions) in any financial assets; 
(viii)  
the excess of foreign currency gains over foreign currency losses;  
(ix)  
(x)  
net income from swaps; or  
amounts received under cash value insurance contracts: 
Provided that passive income will not include, in the case of a non-financial entity that regularly acts as a 
dealer in financial assets, any income from any transaction entered into in the ordinary course of such dealer’s 
business as such a dealer. 
(7) “reporting financial institution” means,- 
(a) a financial institution (other than a non-reporting financial institution) which is resident in India, but 
excludes any branch of such institution, that is located outside India; and 
137 | P a g e 
(b) any branch, of a financial institution (other than a non-reporting financial institution) which is not resident in 
India, if that branch is located in India; 
(8) “reportable person” means,- 
(a) one or more specified U.S. persons; or 
(b)  one or more persons other than,-  
(i) a corporation, the stock of which is regularly traded on one or more established securities markets;  
(ii) any corporation that is a related entity of a corporation mentioned in item (i); 
(iii) a Governmental entity;  
(iv) an International organisation;  
(v) a Central bank; or  
(vi) a financial institution,  
that is a resident of any country or territory outside India (except the United States of America) under the tax 
laws of such country or territory or an estate of a decedent who was a resident of any country or territory outside 
India (except the United States of America) under the tax laws of such country or territory; 
(9) “specified U.S. person” means a U.S. Person, other than the persons referred to in sub-clauses (i) to (xiii) of clause 
(ff) of Article 1 of the FATCA agreement; 
(10) “U.S. person” means,- 
(a) 
an individual, being a citizen or resident of the United States of America ; 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
a partnership or corporation organized in the United States of America or under the laws of the United States 
of America or any State thereof; 
a trust if,- 
(i) a court within the United States of America would have authority under applicable law to render orders or 
judgments concerning substantially all issues regarding administration of the trust; and 
(ii) one or more U.S. persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust; or 
an estate of a decedent who was a citizen or resident of the United States of America; 
(11) “U.S. reportable account” means a financial account maintained by a reporting financial institution and, pursuant to 
the due diligence procedures provided in rule 114H, is identified to be held by one or more specified U.S. persons or by 
an entity not based in the United States of America with one or more controlling persons which is a specified U.S. 
Person; 
(12) “U.S. source withholdable payment” means any payment of interest (including any original issue discount), 
dividends, rents, salaries, wages, premiums, annuities, compensations, remunerations, emoluments, and other fixed or 
determinable annual or periodical gains, profits, and income, if such payment is from sources within the United States 
of America: 
Provided that a U.S. source withholdable payment shall not include any payment that is not treated as a withholdable 
payment in relevant Treasury Regulations of the United States of America; 
(13) “withholding foreign partnership” means a foreign partnership that has entered into a withholding agreement with 
the United States of America in which it agrees to assume primary withholding responsibility for all payments which 
are made to it for its partners, beneficiaries or owners; 
(14) “withholding foreign trust” means a foreign trust that has entered into a withholding agreement with the United 
States of America in which it agrees to assume primary withholding responsibility for all payments which are made to it 
for its partners, beneficiaries or owners. 
138 | P a g e 
114G. Information to be maintained and reported.- (1) The following information shall be maintained and reported by a 
reporting financial institution in respect of each reportable account, namely:- 
(a) 
the name, address, taxpayer identification number (assigned to the account holder by the country or territory of his 
residence for tax purposes) and date and place of birth (in the case of an individual) of each reportable person, that 
is an account holder of the account;  
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 
(g) 
(h) 
in the case of any entity which is an account holder and which, after application of due diligence procedures 
prescribed in rule 114H, is identified as having one or more controlling persons that is a reportable person,- 
(i) 
the name and address of the entity, taxpayer identification number assigned to the entity by the country or 
territory of its residence; and  
(ii) 
the name, address, date and place of birth of each such controlling person and taxpayer identification number 
assigned to such controlling person by the country or territory of his residence; 
the account number (or functional equivalent in the absence of an account number); 
the account balance or value (including, in the case of a cash value insurance contract or annuity contract, the cash 
value or surrender value) at the end of relevant calendar year or, if the account was closed during such year, 
immediately before closure; 
in the case of any custodial account,- 
(i) 
the total gross amount of interest, the total gross amount of dividends, and the total gross amount of other 
income generated with respect to the assets held in the account, in each case paid or credited to the account 
(or with respect to the account) during the calendar year; and 
(ii) 
the total gross proceeds from the sale or redemption of financial assets paid or credited to the account during 
the calendar year with respect to which the reporting financial institution acted as a custodian, broker, 
nominee, or otherwise as an agent for the account holder; 
in the case of any depository account, the total gross amount of interest paid or credited to the account during the 
relevant calendar year;  
in the case of any account other than that referred to in clauses (e) or (f), the total gross amount paid or credited to 
the account holder with respect to the account during the relevant calendar year with respect to which the 
reporting financial institution is the obligor or debtor, including the aggregate amount of any redemption payments 
made to the account holder during the relevant calendar year; and 
in the case of any account held by a non-participating financial institution, for calendar year 2015 and 2016, the 
name of each non-participating financial institution to which payments have been made and the aggregate amount 
of such payments: 
Provided that the information to be reported,- 
(i) 
with respect to calendar year 2014, is the information referred to in clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d), with regard to U.S. 
reportable accounts; 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
with respect to calendar year 2015, is the information referred to in clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h) and sub
clause (i) of clause (e), with regard to U.S. reportable accounts; 
with respect to calendar year 2016, is the information referred to in clauses (a) to (h), with regard to all reportable 
accounts; 
with respect to calendar year 2017 and subsequent years, is the information referred to in clauses (a) to (g), with 
regard to all reportable accounts: 
Provided further that with respect to each U.S. reportable account which is maintained by a reporting financial institution as 
on the 30th June, 2014, the taxpayer identification number of any relevant person is not required to be reported if such 
taxpayer identification number is not in the records of the reporting financial institution. 
(2) 
(3) 
For the purpose of sub-rule (1),- 
(a) 
“account holder” means the person listed or identified as the holder of a financial account by the financial 
institution that maintains the account: 
Provided that a person, other than a financial institution, holding a financial account for the benefit or on account 
of another person as agent, custodian, nominee, signatory, investment advisor, or intermediary, is not treated as 
holding the account, and such other person is treated as holding the account: 
Provided further that in the case of a cash value insurance contract or an annuity contract, the account holder is 
any person entitled to receive a payment upon the maturity of the contract or any person entitled to access the cash 
value or change the beneficiary of the contract and if no person can access the cash value or change the 
beneficiary, the account holder is any person named as the owner in the contract and any person with a vested 
entitlement to payment under the terms of the contract; 
(b) “taxpayer identification number” means a number assigned to a person in the country or territory in which he is 
resident for tax purposes and includes a functional equivalent in case no such number is assigned. 
Where the person is a resident of more than one country or territory outside India under the tax laws of such country 
or territory, the reporting financial institution shall maintain the taxpayer identification number in respect of each such 
country or territory. 
(4) 
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), with respect to each reportable account which is a pre-existing 
account, the taxpayer identification number or date of birth is not required to be reported if such taxpayer identification 
number or date of birth is not in the records of the reporting financial institution: 
139 | P a g e 
Provided that the reporting financial institution shall obtain the taxpayer identification number and date of birth with respect 
to pre-existing accounts by the 31st December, 2016 and shall report it with respect to calendar year 2017 and subsequent 
years. 
(5) 
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1) and sub-rule (4), the taxpayer identification number is not 
required to be reported if,- 
(i)  
a taxpayer identification number (including its functional equivalent) is not issued by the relevant country or 
territory outside India in which the person is resident for tax purposes or; 
(ii) the domestic law of the relevant country or territory outside India does not require the collection of the taxpayer 
identification number issued by such country or territory. 
(6) 
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the place of birth is not required to be reported unless it is 
available in the electronically searchable data maintained by the reporting financial institution. 
(7) The statement of reportable account required to be furnished under clause (k) of sub-section (1) of section 285BA shall be 
furnished by a reporting financial institution in respect of each account which has been identified, pursuant to due diligence 
procedure specified in rule 114H, as a reportable account: 
Provided that where pursuant to such due diligence procedures no account is identified as a reportable account, a nil 
statement shall be furnished by the reporting financial institution. 
(8) 
The statement referred to in sub-rule (7) shall be furnished in Form No. 61B for every calendar year by the 31st day 
of May following that year: 
Provided that the statement pertaining to calendar year 2014 shall be furnished by the 31st day of August, 2015. 
(9) (a) The statement referred to in sub-rule (7) shall be furnished to the Director of Income-tax (Intelligence and Criminal 
Investigation) or the Joint Director of Income-tax (Intelligence and Criminal Investigation) through online transmission of 
electronic data to a server designated for this purpose under the digital signature in accordance with the data structure 
specified in this regard by the Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems). 
Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-rule, “digital signature” means a digital signature issued by any Certifying 
Authority authorised to issue such certificates by the Controller of Certifying Authorities. 
(b) Principal Director General of Income Tax (Systems) shall specify the procedures, data structures and standards for 
ensuring secure capture and transmission of data, evolving and implementing appropriate security, archival and retrieval 
policies. 
(10) (a) Every reporting financial institution shall communicate to the Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) the 
name, designation and communication details of the Designated Director and the Principal Officer and obtain a registration 
number; 
(b) 
The statement referred to in sub-rule (7) shall be signed, verified and furnished by the Designated Director of the 
reporting financial institution on the basis of information available with the institution: 
Provided that where the reporting financial institution is a non-resident, the statement may be signed, verified and furnished 
by a person who holds a valid power of attorney from such Designated Director; 
(c) 
It shall be the duty of every reporting financial institution, its Designated Director, Principal Officer and employees 
to observe the procedure and the manner of maintaining information as specified by its regulator. 
Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-rule,- 
(a) "Designated Director" means a person designated by the reporting financial institution to ensure overall compliance with 
the obligations imposed under section 285BA and the rules made thereunder and includes— 
(i) 
the Managing Director or a whole-time Director, as defined in the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013), duly 
authorised by the Board of Directors if the reporting financial institution is a company; 
(ii) the managing partner if the reporting financial institution is a partnership firm; 
(iii) 
the proprietor if the reporting financial institution is a proprietorship concern; 
(iv) 
the managing trustee if the reporting financial institution is a trust; 
(v) a person or individual, as the case may be, who controls and manages the affairs of the reporting financial 
institution if the reporting financial institution is an association of persons or a body of individuals, or any other 
person; 
(b) “Principal Officer” means an officer designated by the reporting financial institution; 
(c) “regulator” means a person or an authority or a Government which is vested with the power to license, authorise, register, 
regulate or supervise the activities of the reporting financial institution. 
(11)(a) The regulator referred to in clause (c) of sub-rule (10) shall issue instructions or guidelines to,- 
(i) 
incorporate the requirements of reporting and due diligence procedure specified under rules 114F to 114H; 
(ii) 
provide the procedure and manner of maintaining the information by the reporting financial institution; and 
(iii) ensure the availability of the information referred to in sub-rule (1) with the reporting financial institution for 
meeting its reporting obligation, if such information is not maintained by it under any rule or regulation 
issued by the regulator. 
(b) 
Every reporting financial institution shall maintain information in respect of financial accounts in accordance with 
the procedure and manner as may be specified by its regulator from time to time so as to enable reporting of information 
prescribed under this rule and perform due diligence procedure specified under rule 114H. 
140 | P a g e 
114H. Due diligence requirement.- (1) An account shall be treated as a reportable account beginning as on the date it is 
identified as such pursuant to the due diligence procedure specified in sub-rule (3) to sub-rule (8) and, unless otherwise 
provided, information with respect to a reportable account shall be reported annually in the calendar year following the 
calendar year to which the information relates. 
(2) 
For the purpose of this rule,- 
(a) 
“documentary evidence” includes any of the following, namely:- 
(i)  
a certificate of residence issued by an authorised Government body, including a Government agency or a 
municipality, of the country or territory in which the payee claims to be a resident; 
(ii) 
with respect to an individual, any valid identification issued by an authorized Government body, including 
a Government agency or a municipality, that includes the individual’s name and is particularly used for 
identification purposes; 
(iii) with respect to an entity, any official documentation issued by an authorized Government body, including a 
Government agency or a municipality, which includes the name of the entity and either the address of its 
principal office in the country or territory in which it claims to be a resident or the country or territory in 
which the entity was incorporated or organized; 
(iv) any financial statement, third-party credit report, bankruptcy filing, or a report of the Government agency 
regulating the securities market; 
(b)  “high value account” means a pre-existing individual account with a balance or value that,- 
(i)  in case of a U.S. reportable account, exceeds an amount equivalent to one million U.S. dollars as on the 30th 
June, 2014 or 31st December of any subsequent year; and 
(ii) in case of other reportable account, exceeds an amount equivalent to one million U.S. dollars as on the 31st 
December, 2015 or 31st December of any subsequent year; 
(c)  
“lower value account” means a pre-existing individual account with a balance or value that,- 
(i) 
in case of a U.S. reportable account, exceeds an amount equivalent to fifty thousand U.S. dollars but does not 
exceed an amount equivalent to one million U.S. dollars as on the 30th June, 2014; and 
(ii)  
in case of other reportable account, does not exceed an amount equivalent to one million U.S. dollars as on 
the 31st December, 2015; 
(d)  “new account” means a financial account maintained by a reporting financial institution opened on or after,  
(i) in case of a U.S. reportable account, the 1st July, 2014; and 
(ii)  in case of other reportable account, the 1st January, 2016; 
(e)  
“new entity account” means a new account held by one or more entities; 
(f)  
“new individual account” means a new account held by one or more individuals; 
(g) “other reportable account” means a reportable account which is not a U.S. reportable account; 
(h)  “pre-existing account” means a financial account maintained by a reporting financial institution as on,-  
(I) in case of a U.S. reportable account, the 30th June, 2014; and 
(II) in case of other reportable account, the 31st December 2015; 
(i) 
(j) 
“pre-existing entity account” means a pre-existing account held by one or more entities; 
“pre-existing individual account” means a pre-existing account held by one or more individuals; 
(k) where a balance or value threshold is to be determined at the end of a calendar year, the relevant balance or value 
shall be determined as on the last day of the reporting period which ends with or within that calendar year. 
(3) The due diligence procedure for the purposes of identifying reportable accounts among pre-existing individual accounts 
shall be the following, namely:- 
(a) 
(b) 
a pre-existing individual account is not required to be reviewed, identified or reported, if,- 
(i) 
in case of a U.S. reportable account,- 
(A) the balance or value as on the 30th June, 2014, does not exceed an amount equivalent to fifty thousand 
U.S. dollars, subject to sub-clause (vi) of clause (c) of this sub-rule; or  
(B) which is a cash value insurance contract or an annuity contract, the balance or value does not exceed an 
amount equivalent to two hundred and fifty thousand U.S. dollars as on the 30th June, 2014, subject to 
sub-clause (vi) of clause (c) of this sub-rule; or 
(C) which is a cash value insurance contract or an annuity contract, the reporting financial institution, under 
any other law for the time being in force in India or of the United States of America, is prevented from 
selling such contract to a person who is a resident of the United States of America; 
(ii)  
in case of other reportable account, which is a cash value insurance contract or an annuity contract, the 
reporting financial institution, under any other law for the time being in force in India, is prevented from 
selling such contract to a person who is not a resident of India for tax purposes; 
with respect to lower value accounts among pre-existing individual accounts the following procedures shall apply, 
namely:- 
(i) 
the reporting financial institution must review electronically searchable data maintained by the reporting 
financial institution for any of the following indicia, and apply provisions contained in sub-clauses (ii) to (v), 
namely:- 
(A) identification of the account holder as a resident of any country or territory outside India for tax 
purposes or unambiguous indication of a place of birth in the United States of America; or 
(B) current mailing or residence address (including a post office box) in any country or territory outside 
India; or 
141 | P a g e 
(C) one or more telephone numbers in a country or territory outside India and no telephone number in India; 
or 
(D) in case of U.S. reportable account, any standing instructions to transfer funds to an account maintained 
in a country or territory outside India and in case of other reportable account, any standing 
instructions (other than with respect to a depository account) to transfer funds to an account 
maintained in a country or territory outside India; or 
(E) currently effective power of attorney or signatory authority granted to a person with an address in a 
country or territory outside India; or 
(F)  a “hold mail” instruction or “in-care-of” address in a country or territory outside India if the reporting 
financial institution does not have any other address on file for the account holder; 
(ii) 
if none of the indicia listed in sub-clause (i) are discovered in the electronic search, then no further action is 
required until there is a change in circumstances which results in one or more indicia being associated with 
the account, or the account becomes a high value account; 
(iii) if any of the indicia listed in items (A) to (E) of sub-clause (i) are discovered in the electronic search, or if 
there is a change in circumstances which results in one or more indicia being associated with the account, 
then the reporting financial institution shall treat the account holder as resident for tax purposes of each such 
country or territory for which an indicium is identified, unless it elects to apply sub-clause (v) and one of the 
exceptions in the said sub-clause applies with respect to that account; 
(iv) if a “hold mail” instruction or “in-care-of” address is discovered in the electronic search and no other address 
and none of the other indicia listed in items (A) to (E) of sub-clause (i) are identified for the account holder, 
the reporting financial institution shall apply the paper record search referred to in sub-clause (ii) of clause 
(c), or seek to obtain from the account holder a self-certification or documentary evidence to establish the 
residence or residences for tax purposes of such account holder: 
Provided that if the paper search fails to establish an indicium and the attempt to obtain the self-certification 
or documentary evidence is not successful, the reporting financial institution shall report the account as an 
undocumented account; 
(v) notwithstanding a finding of indicia under sub-clause (i), a reporting financial institution is not required to 
treat an account holder as a resident, for tax purposes,- 
(A) of United States of America if, the account holder’s information unambiguously indicates a place of 
birth in the United States of America and the reporting financial institution obtains, or has previously 
reviewed and maintains a record of,- 
(I) 
a self-certification that the account holder is neither a citizen of the United States of America nor 
its resident for tax purposes; 
(II) a passport or other Government-issued identification evidencing the account holder’s citizenship 
or nationality in a country other than the United States of America; and 
(III) a copy of the account holder’s certificate of loss of nationality of the United States of America or a 
reasonable explanation of- 
(1) the reason, the account holder does not have such a certificate despite relinquishing citizenship 
of the United States of America; or  
(2) the reason, the account holder did not obtain citizenship of the United States of America at 
birth; 
(B) of any country or territory outside India if, the account holder’s information contains a current mailing 
or residence address in any country or territory outside India, one or more telephone numbers in any 
country or territory outside India (and no telephone number in India) or standing instructions (with 
respect to financial accounts other than depository accounts) to transfer funds to an account maintained 
in any country or territory outside India, the reporting financial institution obtains, or has previously 
reviewed and maintains a record of,- 
(I) 
a self-certification from the account holder of the country or territory or countries or territories of 
residence for tax purposes of such account holder that does not include any country or territory 
outside India; and 
(II) documentary evidence establishing the account holder’s non-reportable status; 
(C) of any country or territory outside India if, the account holder’s information contains a currently 
effective power of attorney or signatory authority granted to a person with an address in a country or 
territory outside India, or one or more telephone numbers in any country or territory outside India (if an 
Indian telephone number in also associated with the account), the reporting financial institution obtains, 
or has previously reviewed and maintains a record of- 
(I) 
a self-certification from the account holder of the country or territory or countries or territories of 
residence of such account holder that does not include any country or territory outside India; or 
(II) documentary evidence establishing the account holder’s non-reportable status; 
(c) 
with respect to high value accounts among pre-existing individual accounts the following enhanced review 
procedures shall apply, namely:- 
(i)  
the reporting financial institution must review electronically searchable data maintained by the reporting 
financial institution for any of the indicia described in sub-clause (i) of clause (b); 
142 | P a g e 
(ii) 
if the reporting financial institution’s electronically searchable databases do not capture all of the 
information referred to in sub-clause (iii) of this clause, then the reporting financial institution shall also 
review the current customer master file and, to the extent not contained in the current customer master file, 
the following documents associated with the account and obtained by the reporting financial institution 
during the last five years for any of the indicia provided in sub-clause (i) of clause (b),- 
(A) the most recent documentary evidence collected with respect to the account; 
(B) 
the most recent account opening contract or documentation; 
(C) 
the most recent documentation obtained by the reporting financial institution pursuant to rules 
framed under the Prevention of Money-laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003) or any other law for the 
time being in force; 
(D) any power of attorney or signature authority forms currently in effect; and 
(E) 
in case of U.S. reportable account, any standing instructions to transfer funds currently in effect and 
in case of other reportable account any standing instructions (other than with respect to a depository 
account) to transfer funds currently in effect: 
Provided that where the electronically searchable databases include fields for, and capture all the 
information referred to in sub-clause (iii) of this clause, then review of the customer master file and 
documents referred to above shall not be required; 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
(vi) 
a reporting financial institution is not required to perform the paper record search referred in sub-clause (ii) 
of this clause to the extent the reporting financial institution’s electronically searchable information 
includes the following, namely:- 
(A)  the account holder’s residence status for tax purposes;  
(B)  the account holder’s residence address and mailing address currently on file with the reporting 
financial institution;  
(C)  the account holder’s telephone number or numbers currently on file, if any, with the reporting 
financial institution;  
(D)  in the case of financial accounts other than depository accounts, whether there are standing 
instructions to transfer funds in the account to another account (including an account at another 
branch of the reporting financial institution or another financial institution);  
(E)  whether there is a current “in-care-of” address or “hold mail” instruction for the account holder; and 
(F)  
whether there is any power of attorney or signatory authority for the account; 
in addition to the electronic and paper record searches provided in sub-clauses (i) to (iii) of this clause, the 
reporting financial institution shall treat as a reportable account any high value account assigned to a 
relationship manager (including any financial accounts aggregated with that high value account) if the 
relationship manager has actual knowledge that the account holder is a reportable person; 
after application of review procedures specified in sub-clauses (i) to (iv) if,- 
(A) none of the indicia referred to in sub-clause (i) of clause (b) are discovered, and the account is not 
identified as held by a reportable person as per sub-clause (iv), then further action is not required until 
there is a change in circumstances which results in one or more indicia being associated with the 
account; 
(B) any of the indicia referred to in items (A) to (E) of sub-clause (i) of clause (b) are discovered, or if 
there is a subsequent change in circumstances which results in one or more indicia being associated 
with the account, then the reporting financial institution shall treat the account as a reportable account 
with respect to each country or territory outside India for which an indicium is identified unless it 
elects to apply sub-clause (v) of clause (b) and one of the exceptions in the said sub-clause applies with 
respect to that account; 
(C) a “hold mail” instruction or “in-care-of” address is discovered in the electronic search and no other 
address and none of the other indicia referred to in items (A) to (E) of sub-clause (i) of clause (b) are 
identified for the account holder, the reporting financial institution shall obtain from such account 
holder a self-certification or documentary evidence to establish the residence or residences for tax 
purposes of the account holder: 
Provided that if the reporting financial institution cannot obtain such self-certification or documentary 
evidence, it shall report the account as an undocumented account; 
if a pre-existing individual account is not a high value account as on the 30th June, 2014 (for U.S. reportable 
account), or as the case may be, 31st December, 2015 (for other reportable account), but becomes a high 
value account as on the last day of year 2015 (for U.S. reportable account) or last day of any subsequent 
calendar year (for all reportable accounts), the reporting financial institution shall complete the enhanced 
review procedures specified in this clause with respect to such account within the calendar year following 
the year in which the account becomes a high value account and if based on such review the account is 
identified as a reportable account, the reporting financial institution shall report the required information 
about such account with respect to the year in which it is identified as a reportable account and subsequent 
years on an annual basis, unless the account holder ceases to be a reportable person; 
(vii) once a reporting financial institution applies the enhanced review procedures specified in this clause to a 
high value account, the reporting financial institution is not required to re-apply such procedures, other than 
an inquiry by the relationship manager provided in sub-clause (iv), to the same high value account in any 
143 | P a g e 
subsequent year unless the account is undocumented where the reporting financial institution shall re-apply 
them annually until such account ceases to be undocumented; 
(viii) if there is a change of circumstances with respect to a high value account which results in one or more 
indicia referred to in sub-clause (i) of clause (b) being associated with the account, then the reporting 
financial institution must treat the account as a reportable account with respect to each such country or 
territory outside India for which an indicium is identified unless it elects to apply sub-clause (v) of clause 
(b) and one of the exceptions in the said sub-clause applies with respect to that account; 
(ix) 
(d) 
(i) 
a reporting financial institution shall implement procedures to ensure that a relationship manager identifies 
any change in circumstances of an account and where the relationship manager is informed that the account 
holder has a new mailing address in any country or territory outside India, the reporting financial institution 
is required to treat the new address as a change in circumstances and, if it elects to apply sub-clause (v) of 
clause (b), then it is required to obtain the appropriate documentation from the account holder; 
review of pre-existing individual account,- 
in case of a U.S. reportable account which is high value account as on the 30th June, 2014, shall be completed 
by the 31st December, 2015 and if based on this review such account is identified as a U.S. reportable account 
after the 31st December, 2014 and on or before the 31st December, 2015, the reporting financial institution is 
not required to report information about such account with respect to calendar year 2014, but shall report 
information about the account on an annual basis thereafter; 
(ii)   in case of a U.S. reportable account which is low value account as on the 30th June, 2014, shall be completed 
by the 30th June, 2016 and in case of other reportable account which is high value account as on the 31st 
December, 2015, shall be completed by the 31st December, 2016; 
(iii) in case of other reportable account that is low value account as on the 31st December, 2015, must be 
completed by the 30th June, 2017; 
(e) 
(4) 
any pre-existing individual account which has been identified as a reportable account under this sub-rule shall be 
treated as a reportable account in all subsequent years, unless the account holder ceases to be a resident of any 
country or territory outside India as per tax laws of such jurisdiction. 
The following procedures shall apply for purposes of identifying reportable accounts among new individual 
accounts, namely:- 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
unless the reporting financial institution elects otherwise, the following new individual accounts are not required 
to be reviewed, or reported as U.S. reportable accounts, namely:-  
(i) 
a depository account unless the account balance exceeds an amount equivalent to fifty thousand U.S. dollars 
at the end of any calendar year; 
(ii) 
a cash value insurance contract unless the cash value exceeds an amount equivalent to fifty thousand U.S. 
dollars at the end of any calendar year; 
in case of a new individual account,- 
(i)  
in respect of a U.S. reportable account, which does not fall under sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (a), upon 
account opening (or within ninety days after the end of the calendar year in which the account ceases to be 
covered under sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (a)); and 
(ii) 
in respect of other reportable account, upon account opening, 
the reporting financial institution shall obtain a self-certification, which may be part of the account opening 
documentation, that allows the reporting financial institution to determine the account holder’s residence or 
residences for tax purposes and confirms the reasonableness of such self-certification based on the 
information obtained by the reporting financial institution in connection with the opening of the account, 
including any documentation collected in accordance with Prevention of Money-laundering (Maintenance of 
Records) Rules, 2005; 
where the self-certification obtained under clause (b) of this sub-rule establishes that the account holder is resident 
for tax purposes in a country or territory outside India, the reporting financial institution shall treat the account as 
a reportable account and the self-certification shall also include the account holder’s taxpayer identification 
number with respect to such country or territory outside India, subject to sub-rule (5) of rule 114G, and date of 
birth; 
where a self-certification has been obtained under clause (b) of this sub-rule for a new individual account and if 
there is a change of circumstances with respect to such account which causes the reporting financial institution to 
know, or have reason to know, that the said self-certification is incorrect or unreliable, the reporting financial 
institution shall not rely on the said self-certification and shall obtain a valid self-certification that establishes the 
residence or residences for tax purposes of the account holder: 
Provided that if the reporting financial institution is unable to obtain a valid self-certification, the reporting 
financial institution shall treat the account as a reportable account with respect to each such country or territory 
outside India for which an indicium is identified. 
(5) The following procedures shall apply for purposes of identifying reportable accounts among pre-existing entity accounts, 
namely:- 
(a) 
unless the reporting financial institution elects otherwise, either with respect to all pre-existing entity accounts or, 
separately, with respect to any clearly identified group of such accounts, a pre-existing entity account with an 
aggregate account balance or value which does not exceed an amount equivalent to two hundred and fifty 
thousand U.S. dollars as on the 30th June, 2014 (in case of a U.S. reportable account), or as the case may be, 31st 
144 | P a g e 
December, 2015 (in case of other reportable account), is not required to be reviewed, identified, or reported as a 
reportable account until the aggregate account balance or value exceeds an amount equivalent to two hundred and 
fifty thousand U.S. dollars as of the last day of any subsequent calendar year; 
(b) a pre-existing entity account that has an aggregate account balance or value that exceeds an amount equivalent to 
two hundred and fifty thousand U.S. dollars as on the 30th June, 2014 (in case of a U.S. reportable account), or as 
the case may be, 31st December, 2015 (in case of other reportable account), and a pre-existing entity account that 
does not exceed an amount equivalent to two hundred and fifty thousand U.S. dollars as on the 30th June, 2014 (in 
case of a U.S. reportable account), or as the case may be, 31st December, 2015 (in case of other reportable 
account) but the aggregate account balance or value exceeds an amount equivalent to two hundred and fifty 
thousand U.S. dollars as of the last day of any subsequent calendar year, shall be reviewed in accordance with the 
procedure provided in clause (d) of this sub-rule; 
(c) 
with respect to pre-existing entity accounts referred to in clause (b), only accounts which are held by,- 
(i)  
one or more entities which are reportable persons; or 
(ii) 
passive non-financial entity with one or more controlling persons who are reportable persons,  
shall be treated as reportable accounts: 
Provided that the accounts held by non-participating financial institutions for which aggregate payments as 
provided in clause (h) of sub-rule (1) of rule 114G are reported shall be treated as reportable accounts; 
(d) for pre-existing entity accounts referred to in clause (b) with respect to which reporting is required, a reporting 
financial institution, to determine whether the account is held by one or more reportable persons, or by a passive 
non-financial entity with one or more controlling persons who are reportable persons, or by non-participating 
financial institutions, shall apply the following review procedures namely:- 
(i) 
to determine whether the entity is a reportable person, the reporting financial institution shall,- 
(A) review information maintained for regulatory or customer relationship purposes (including information 
collected in accordance with the rules made under the Prevention of Money-laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 
2003)) to determine whether the information indicates that the account holder is a reportable person.  
Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-clause, information indicating that the account holder is a 
resident of any country or territory outside India as per tax laws of such country or territory includes a 
place of incorporation or organisation, or an address in a country or territory outside India; 
(B) treat the account as a reportable account, if the information as per item (A) indicates that the account 
holder is a reportable person, unless it obtains a self-certification from the account holder, or reasonably 
determines based on information in its possession or that is publicly available, that the account holder is 
not a reportable person: 
Provided that if the information as per item (A) indicates that the account holder is an entity not based 
in the United States of America which is a financial institution, or the reporting financial institution 
verifies the account holder’s Global Intermediary Identification Number, then the account shall not be 
treated as a U.S. reportable account; 
(ii) 
treat the account holder as a non-participating financial institution if,- 
(A) the account holder is an Indian financial institution or other partner jurisdiction financial institution and 
treated by the United States of America as a non-participating financial institution; 
(B) the account holder, being a financial institution, is not an Indian financial institution or other partner 
jurisdiction financial institution, unless the reporting financial institution,- 
(I)  
obtains a self-certification from the account holder that it is a financial institution referred to in 
sub-clauses (a) to (m) of clause (5) of rule 114F; or 
(II)  
in the case of participating foreign financial institution defined in Annex II of the FATCA 
agreement or a financial institution referred to in sub-clauses (e) to (m) of clause (5) of rule 114F, 
verifies the account holder’s Global Intermediary Identification Number;  
(iii) the reporting financial institution shall determine whether the account holder is a passive non-financial entity 
with one or more controlling persons who are resident of any country or territory outside India as per tax 
laws of such country or territory and in making these determinations the reporting financial institution shall 
follow the following procedures, namely:- 
(A) for purposes of determining whether the account holder is a passive non-financial entity, the reporting 
financial institution shall obtain a self-certification from the account holder to establish its status, unless 
it has information in its possession or which is publicly available, based on which it can reasonably 
determine that the account holder is an active non-financial entity or a financial institution other than an 
investment entity referred to in sub-clause (B) of clause (c) of Explanation to clause (3) of rule 114F; 
(B) for purposes of determining the controlling persons of an account holder, a reporting financial institution 
may rely on information collected and maintained in accordance with the rules made under the 
Prevention of Money-laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003); 
(C) for purposes of determining whether a controlling person of a pre-existing account of passive non
financial entity is a reportable person, a reporting financial institution may rely on,-  
(I)  
information collected and maintained in accordance with rules made under the Prevention of Money
laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003) in the case of pre-existing entity account held by one or more non
financial entity with an aggregate balance or value which does not exceed an amount equivalent to 
one million U.S. dollars; or 
145 | P a g e 
(II) a self-certification from the account holder or such controlling person of the passive non-financial 
entity with an account balance or value which exceeds an amount equivalent to one million U.S. 
dollars; 
(D) if any controlling person of a passive non-financial entity is a resident of any country or territory outside 
India for tax purposes, the account shall be treated as a reportable account; 
(e) 
(6) 
the following additional procedures shall be applicable to pre-existing entity accounts, namely:- 
(i)  
review of pre-existing entity accounts with an aggregate account balance or value that exceeds an amount 
equivalent to two hundred and fifty thousand U.S. dollars as on the 30th June, 2014 (in case of a U.S. 
reportable account) shall be completed by the 30th June, 2016 and review of pre-existing entity accounts with 
an aggregate account balance or value that exceeds an amount equivalent to two hundred and fifty thousand 
U.S. dollars as on the 31st December, 2015 (in case of other reportable account) shall be completed by the 
31st December, 2016; 
(ii) 
review of pre-existing entity accounts with an aggregate account balance or value which does not exceed an 
amount equivalent to two hundred and fifty thousand U.S. dollars as on the 30th June, 2014 (in case of a U.S. 
reportable account), or as the case may be, 31st December, 2015 (in case of other reportable account), but 
exceeds an amount equivalent to two hundred and fifty thousand U.S. dollars as on the 31st December of a 
subsequent year, shall be completed within the calendar year following the year in which the aggregate 
account balance or value exceeds an amount equivalent to two hundred and fifty thousand U.S. dollars; 
(iii) if there is a change of circumstances with respect to a pre-existing entity account that causes the reporting 
financial institution to know, or have reason to know, that the self-certification or other documentation 
associated with the account is incorrect or unreliable, the reporting financial institution shall re-determine the 
status of the account in accordance with the procedures set forth in clause (d) of this sub-rule. 
The following procedures shall apply for purposes of identifying reportable accounts and accounts held by non
participating financial institutions among new entity accounts, namely:- 
(a) 
a reporting financial institution, to determine whether the new entity account is a reportable account, shall apply 
the following review procedures namely:- 
(i) 
(ii) 
(b) 
the  
determine whether the entity is a reportable person and for that the reporting financial institution shall,- 
(A) obtain a self-certification, which may be part of the account opening documentation, that allows the 
reporting financial institution to determine the account holder’s residence or residences for tax purposes 
and confirm the reasonableness of such self-certification based on the information obtained by the 
reporting financial institution in connection with the opening of the account, including any 
documentation collected in accordance with the rules made under the Prevention of Money-laundering 
Act, 2002 (15 of 2003): 
Provided that if the entity certifies that it has no residence for tax purposes, the reporting financial 
institution may rely on the address of the principal office of the entity to determine the residence of the 
account holder; 
(B) treat the account as a reportable account, if the information as per item (A) indicates that the account 
holder is a reportable person, unless it reasonably determines based on information in its possession or 
which is publicly available, that the account holder is not a reportable person: 
Provided that if the information as per item (A) indicates that the account holder is an Indian financial 
institution, or partner jurisdiction financial institution, which is not a non-participating financial 
institution or a participating foreign financial institution or a non-reporting financial institution then the 
account shall not be treated as a U.S. reportable account; 
determine whether the account holder is a passive non-financial entity with one or more controlling persons 
who are reportable persons and in making these determinations the reporting financial institution shall follow 
the following procedures, namely:- 
(A) for purposes of determining whether the account holder is a passive non-financial entity, the reporting 
financial institution shall rely on a self-certification from the account holder to establish its status, unless 
it has information in its possession or that is publicly available, based on which it can reasonably 
determine that the account holder is not a passive non-financial entity; 
(B) for purposes of determining the controlling persons of an account holder, a reporting financial institution 
may rely on information collected and maintained in accordance with the rules made under the 
Prevention of Money-laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003); 
(C) for purposes of determining whether a controlling person of a passive non-financial entity is a reportable 
person, a reporting financial institution may rely on a self-certification from the account holder or such 
controlling person; 
reporting financial institution shall determine whether the account holder is a non-participating financial 
institution and in such case any payment to the account holder shall be reported as per clause (h) of sub-rule (1) of 
rule 114G. 
(7) 
The following additional procedures shall apply in implementing the due diligence requirement specified in sub
rules (1) to (6), namely:- 
(a) 
a reporting financial institution may not rely on a self-certification or documentary evidence if the reporting 
financial institution knows or has reason to know that the self-certification or documentary evidence is incorrect or 
unreliable; 
146 | P a g e 
(b) 
a reporting financial institution may presume that an individual beneficiary (other than the owner) of a cash value 
insurance contract or an annuity contract receiving a death benefit is not a reportable person and may treat such 
financial account as other than a reportable account unless the reporting financial institution has actual knowledge, 
or reason to know, that the beneficiary is a reportable person: 
Provided that if a reporting financial institution has actual knowledge, or reason to know, that the beneficiary is a 
reportable person, it shall follow the procedures specified in clause (b) of sub-rule (3); 
Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause, a reporting financial institution shall be deemed to have reason to 
know that a beneficiary of a cash value insurance contract or an annuity contract is a reportable person if the 
information collected by the reporting financial institution and associated with the beneficiary contains indicia 
specified in clause (b) of sub-rule (3).  
(c) 
(8) 
the following procedures relating to aggregation of account balance and currency shall apply, namely:- 
(i) 
for purposes of determining the aggregate balance or value of financial accounts held by an individual, a 
reporting financial institution shall be required to aggregate all financial accounts maintained by it, or by a 
related entity, but only to the extent that the computerised systems of that reporting financial institution links 
the financial accounts by reference to a data element such as client number or taxpayer identification number, 
and allows account balances or values to be aggregated; 
(ii) 
for purposes of determining the aggregate balance or value of financial accounts held by an entity, a 
reporting financial institution shall be required to take into account all financial accounts which are 
maintained by it, or by a related entity, but only to the extent that the computerised systems of that reporting 
financial institution links the financial accounts by reference to a data element such as client number or 
taxpayer identification number, and allows account balances or values to be aggregated; 
(iii) for purposes of determining the aggregate balance or value of financial accounts held by a person to 
determine whether a financial account is a high value account, a reporting financial institution shall also be 
required, in the case of any financial accounts that a relationship manager knows, or has reason to know, are 
directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or established (other than in a fiduciary capacity) by the same 
person, to aggregate all such accounts; 
(iv) for the purposes of rules 114F, 114G and this rule, any account maintained in rupees or in any permissible 
currency (other than the United States Dollar) as designated by the Reserve Bank of India shall be converted 
to United States Dollar at the end of the reporting period as per the reference rates of the Reserve Bank of 
India and such converted amount in the United States Dollar shall be used for determining the balance or 
value of a financial account provided in such rules. 
Explanation 1.- For the purposes of this clause each holder of a jointly held financial account shall be attributed 
the entire balance or value of the jointly held financial account for purposes of applying the aggregation 
requirements. 
In case of a U.S. reportable account opened on or after the 1st July, 2014 but before the date of entry into force of 
FATCA agreement, notwithstanding the due diligence procedures specified in sub-rule (4) or sub-rule (6) of this rule for new 
accounts, the reporting financial institution may, in lieu of the procedures specified in the said sub-rules, apply the following 
alternative procedures, namely:- 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
within one year after the date of entry into force of the FATCA agreement, reporting financial institutions shall,- 
(i) with respect to a new individual account opened on or after the 1st July, 2014 but before the date of entry into 
force of FATCA agreement, request the self-certification specified in sub-rule (4) and confirm the reasonableness 
of such self-certification consistent with the procedures specified in sub-rule (4); and  
(ii) with respect to a new entity account opened on or after the 1st July, 2014 but before the date of entry into force 
of FATCA agreement, perform the due diligence procedures specified in sub-rule (6) and request for information 
as necessary to document the account, including any self-certification, required under sub-rule (6); 
the reporting financial institution shall report on any new account which is identified pursuant to clause (a) of this 
sub-rule as a U.S. reportable account or as an account held by a non-participating financial institution, as 
applicable, by the date which is the later of,- 
(i) the 31st of May next following the date on which the account is identified as a U.S. reportable account or as an 
account held by a non-participating financial institution, as applicable; and 
(ii) forty-five days after the account is identified as a U.S. reportable account or as an account held by a non
participating financial institution, as applicable: 
Provided that the information required to be reported with respect to such a new account shall be information 
which would have been reportable had the new account been identified as a U.S. reportable account or as an 
account held by a non-participating financial institution, as applicable,  as of the date the account was opened; 
by the date that is one year after the date of entry into force of the FATCA agreement, reporting financial 
institutions shall close any new account described in clause (a) for which it was unable to collect the required self
certification or other documentation in accordance with the procedure specified in clause (b): 
Provided that in addition, by such date, the reporting financial institutions shall,- 
(i) with respect to such closed accounts which prior to such closure were new individual accounts (without regard 
to whether such accounts were high value accounts), perform the due diligence procedure specified in clause (c) of 
sub-rule (3), or  
(ii) with respect to such closed accounts which prior to such closure were new entity accounts, perform the due 
diligence procedures specified in sub-rule (5); and 
147 | P a g e 
(d) 
the reporting financial institution shall report the information specified in rule 114G in respect of any closed 
account which is identified under clause (c) as a U.S. reportable account or as an account held by a non
participating financial institution, as applicable, by the date that is the later of,- 
(i) the 31st of May next following the date on which the account is identified as a U.S. reportable account or as an 
account held by a non-participating financial institution, as applicable; and 
(ii) forty-five days after the account is identified as a U.S. reportable account or as an account held by a non
participating financial institution, as applicable: 
Provided that in respect of all new entity accounts or a clearly identified group of such accounts which are U.S. reportable 
accounts opened on or after the 1st July, 2014, and before the 1st January, 2015 the reporting financial institution may, in lieu 
of the procedure specified in clauses (a) to (d), treat such accounts as pre-existing entity accounts and apply the due diligence 
procedure related to pre-existing entity accounts specified in sub-rule (5) without regard to the account balance or value 
threshold specified in clause (a) of sub-rule (5). 
148 | P a g e 
 
149 | Page 
 
“FORM NO. 61B  
[See sub-rule (8) of rule 114G] 
Statement of Reportable Account under sub-section (1) section 285BA of the Income-tax Act, 1961 
(see instructions for guidance) 
PART A: STATEMENT DETAILS 
(This information should be provided for each Statement of Reports submitted together) 
 
A.1 REPORTING ENTITY DETAILS 
A.1.1 Reporting Entity Name  
A.1.2 ITDREIN           .      
 
A.1.3 Global Intermediary Identification 
Number (GIIN)  
A.1.4 Registration Number  
A.1.5 Reporting Entity Category   Insert 2 character code  
 
A.2 STATEMENT DETAILS  
A.2.1 Statement Type   Insert 2 character code 
 
A.2.2 Statement Number  
A.2.3 Original Statement Id  
A.2.4 Reason for Correction  Insert 1 character code 
 
A.2.5 Statement Date  
A.2.6 Reporting Period  
A.2.7 Report Type  Insert 1 character code 
 
A.2.8 Number of Reports   
A.3 PRINCIPAL OFFICER DETAILS 
A.3.1 Principal Officer Name  
A.3.2 Principal Officer Designation  
A.3.3 Principal Officer Address  
A.3.4 City / Town  
A.3.5 Postal Code  
A.3.6 State Code   Insert 2 character code  
 
A.3.7 Country Code   Insert 2 character code  
 
A.3.8 Telephone  
A.3.9 Mobile  
A.3.10 Fax  
A.3.11 
Email  
150 | P a g e 
 
151 | Page 
 
PART B: REPORT DETAILS 
(This information should be provided for each Account being reported) 
 
B.1 ACCOUNT  DETAILS  (To be provided for each account being reported) 
B.1.1 Report Serial Number  
B.1.2 Original Report Serial Number  
B.1.3 Account Type   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.1.4 Account Number  
B.1.5 Account Number Type  Insert 1 character code 
 
B.1.6 Account Holder Name  
B.1.7 Account Status  Insert 1 character code 
 
B.1.8 Account Treatment  Insert 1 character code 
 
B.1.9 Self- certification  Insert 1 character code 
 
B.1.10 Documentation Status  Insert 1 character code 
 
B.1.11 Date of closure of account, if closed during the 
year  
B.2 BRANCH  DETAILS  
B.2.1 Branch Number Type  Insert 1 character code 
 
B.2.2 Branch Reference Number  
B.2.3 Branch Name  
B.2.4 Branch Address   
B.2.5 City Town  
B.2.6 Postal Code  
B.2.7 State Code   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.2.8 Country Code   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.2.9 Telephone  
B.2.10 Mobile  
B.2.11 Fax  
B.2.12 Email  
B.3 ACCOUNT SUMMARY 
B.3.1 Account balance or value at the end of 
reporting period   
B.3.2 Aggregate gross interest paid or credited    
B.3.3 Aggregate gross dividend paid or credited    
B.3.4 Gross proceeds from sale of property  
B.3.5 Aggregate gross amount of all other income 
paid or credited   
 
152 | Page 
 
B.3.6 Aggregate gross amount credited   
B.3.7 Aggregate gross amount debited   
B.4 INDIVIDUAL DETAILS  (To be provided for individual account holder ) 
B.4.1 Name   
B.4.2 Customer ID  
B.4.3 Father’s  Name   
B.4.4 Spouse’s Name   
B.4.5 Gender      Insert 1 character code (Refer Instructions) 
 
B.4.6 PAN           
 
B.4.7 Aadhaar Number  
B.4.8 Identification Type  Insert 1 character code 
 
B.4.9 Identification Number  
B.4.10 Occupation Type  Insert 1 character code 
 
B.4.11 Occupation   
B.4.12 Birth Date  
B.4.13 Nationality   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.4.14 Country of Residence as per tax laws   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.4.15 Place of Birth  
B.4.16 Country of Birth   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.4.17 Tax Identification Number (TIN) allotted 
by tax resident country  
B.4.18 TIN Issuing Country   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.4.19 Address Type    Insert 2 character code 
 
B.4.20 Address  
 
 
 
B.4.21 City / Town  
B.4.22 Postal Code  
B.4.23 State Code   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.4.24 Country Code   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.4.25 Mobile/Telephone Number  
B.4.26 Other Contact Number  
B.4.27 Remarks  
 
 
 
 
 
B.5 LEGAL ENTITY DETAILS  (To be provided for entity account holder) 
 
153 | Page 
 
B.5.1 Name of the Entity  
B.5.2 Customer ID  
B.5.3 Account Holder Type for US 
Reportable Person  Insert 2 character code 
 
B.5.4 Account Holder Type for Other 
Reportable Person  Insert 2 character code 
 
B.5.5 Entity Constitution Type  Insert 1 character code 
 
B.5.6 Date of Incorporation  
B.5.7 Nature of Business  
B.5.8 PAN           
 
B.5.9 Identification Type  Insert 1 character code 
 
B.5.10 Identification No.  
B.5.11 Identification issuing Country    Insert 2 character code 
 
B.5.12 Place of Incorporation  
B.5.13 Country of Incorporation   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.5.14 Country of Residence as per tax laws   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.5.15 Tax Identification Number (TIN) 
allotted by tax resident country  
B.5.16 TIN Issuing Country   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.5.17 Address Type  Insert 1 character code 
 
B.5.18 Address  
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.5.19 City / Town  
B.5.20 Postal Code  
B.5.21 State Code   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.5.22 Country Code   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.5.23 Mobile/Telephone Number  
B.5.24 Other Contact Number  
B.5.25 Remarks  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.6 CONTROLLING PERSON DETAILS  (To be provided for each controlling person of the entity) 
 
154 | Page 
 
B.6.1 Controlling Person Type    Insert 3 character code 
 
B.6.2 Name   
B.6.3 Customer ID  
B.6.4 Father’s  Name   
B.6.5 Spouse’s Name   
B.6.6 Gender      Insert 1 character code  
 
B.6.7 PAN           
 
B.6.8 Aadhaar Number  
B.6.9 Identification Type  Insert 1 character code 
 
B.6.10 Identification Number  
B.6.11 Occupation Type  Insert 1 character code 
 
B.6.12 Occupation   
B.6.13 Birth Date  
B.6.14 Nationality   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.6.15 Country of Residence as per tax laws   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.6.16 Place of Birth  
B.6.17 Country of Birth   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.6.18 Tax Identification Number (TIN) 
allotted by tax resident country  
B.6.19 TIN Issuing Country   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.6.20  Address Type    Insert 2 character code 
 
B.6.21 Address  
 
 
 
 
B.6.22 City / Town  
B.6.23 Postal Code  
B.6.24 State Code   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.6.25 Country Code   Insert 2 character code 
 
B.6.26 Mobile/Telephone Number  
B.6.27 Other Contact Number  
B.6.28 Remarks”. 
 
 
 
 
[Notification no. 62/2015] [F. No. 142/21/2015 TPL] 
[Gaurav Kanaujia] 
Director to Government of India  
Note:- The principal rules were published vide notification S.O. number 969 (E), dated 26th March, 1962 and last amended by 
Income-tax (10th Amendment) Rules, 2014 vide notification S.O. number 2070(E), dated the 29th July, 2015. 
155 | P a g e 
 
Instructions to Form 61B 
 
General Instructions 
 
The requirement field for each data element indicates whether the element is validation or optional in the schema.  
 
Validation “Validation” elements MUST be present for ALL data records in a file and an automated validation 
check will be undertaken. The Sender should do a technical check of the data file content using 
XML tools to make sure all “Validation” elements are present and if they are not, the sender should 
correct the file. The Income-tax Department will also do so and if incorrect, will reject the file. 
(Optional) Mandatory An optional element that is required for reporting depending on availability of information or legal 
factors. These elements may be present in most (but not all) circumstances. The Income-tax 
Department will publish separate validation rules to check these. 
Optional An optional element specified in form 
Optional* An optional element specified only in instructions. May be reported if available 
 
Specific Instructions 
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
A.1.1 Reporting 
Entity Name 
Complete name of the reporting entity.  Validation 
A.1.2 ITDREIN  
(Income-tax 
Department 
Reporting 
Entity 
Identification 
Number) 
ITDREIN is the Unique ID issued by ITD which will be 
communicated by ITD after the registration of the reporting entity 
with ITD. The ITDREIN is a 16-character identification number in 
the format XXXXXXXXXX.YYYYY where XXXXXXXXXX is the 
PAN or TAN of the reporting entity and YYYYY is a sequentially 
generated number. The reporting Entity may use a dummy number 
(PAN+99999 or TAN+99999) till the ITDREIN is communicated. 
Validation 
A.1.3 GIIN GIIN means the Global Intermediary Identification Number which is 
a 19-character identification number in the format 
XXXXXX.XXXXX.XX.XXX assigned to the reporting entity by 
USA. 
Validation 
A.1.4 Registration 
Number 
This number is the registration number or any number used in 
correspondence with the regulator of the financial institution.  
Optional 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
A.1.5 Reporting 
Entity 
Category 
Category of reporting entity are: 
 DI - Depository Institution 
 CI- Custodial Institution 
 IE- Investment Entity 
 IC - Specified Insurance Company 
 OT- Other 
In case if a Reporting Entity is engaged in more than one category of 
activities, it needs to submit different statements for different 
category of activities. For example if a reporting entity is maintaining 
certain accounts as depository institution and certain other accounts 
as custodial institution, it needs to submit two different statements. 
Validation 
A.2.1 Statement 
Type 
Type of Statement submitted. Permissible values are: 
 NB – New Statement containing new information 
 CB – Correction Statement containing corrections for 
previously submitted information 
 TD - Test Data 
 ND - No Data to report 
One Statement can contain only one type of Statement. Even if 
missing information has to be supplied, the complete report has to be 
submitted instead of an incremental report. 
Validation 
A.2.2 Statement 
Number 
Statement Number is a free text field capturing the sender’s unique 
identifying number (created by the sender) that identifies the 
particular Statement being sent. The identifier allows both the sender 
and receiver to identify the specific Statement later if questions or 
corrections arise. After successful submission of the Statement to 
ITD, a new unique Statement ID will be allotted for future reference. 
The reporting entities should maintain the linkage between the 
Statement Number and Statement ID. 
Example of the statement number is 2015/01. 
Validation 
A.2.3 Original 
Statement Id 
In case if the original statement is being replaced by this statement, 
statement ID of the original Statement which is being replaced 
deleted or referred by reports in the current Statement.  
 
In case the Statement is new and unrelated to any previous Statement, 
mention ‘0’ here. 
Validation 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
A.2.4 Reason of 
Correction 
Reason for revision to be stated when the original Statement is 
corrected.  
Permissible values are: 
 A - Acknowledgement of original Statement had errors which are 
being resolved 
 B - Errors in original Statement are being corrected suo-motu 
 C - The correction report is on account of additional information 
being submitted 
 N - Not applicable as this is a new statement/test data/ there is no 
data to report 
 Z - Other reason 
Validation 
A.2.5 Statement 
Date 
This identifies the date and time when the Statement was compiled. 
This element will be automatically populated by the host system. The 
format for use is YYYY-MM-DD’T’hh:mm:ss. Fractions of seconds 
are not used. Example: 2015-03-15T09:45:30. 
Validation 
A.2.6 Reporting 
Period 
This identifies the last day of the reporting period in YYYY-MM-DD 
format. For example, if reporting information for the accounts or 
payments made in calendar year 2014, the field would read, “2014
12-31” 
Validation 
A.2.7 Report Type Type of report in the Statement. One Statement can contain only one 
type of report.  Permissible values are: 
 01 - Report of US reportable accounts under Rule 114G 
 02 - Report of other reportable accounts under Rule 114G 
Validation 
A.2.8 Number of 
Reports  
Number of Reports in Part B. Validation 
A.3.1 Principal 
Officer Name 
Name of the Principal Officer. Refer to the registration requirement 
under Income-tax Act and Rules 
Validation 
A.3.2 Principal 
Officer 
Designation 
Designation of the Principal Officer.  Validation 
A.3.3 Principal 
Officer 
Address  
Complete address consisting of house number, building name, street, 
locality, city, state etc. 
Validation 
A.3.4 City Town Name of City, Town or Village Validation 
A.3.5 State Code The two digit state code has to be mentioned as per Indian Motor 
Vehicle Act 1988. If state code is not available, use XX. 
Validation 
A.3.6 Postal Code In case of India, the 6 digit Pin code as per India Posts has to be 
mentioned. In case of countries outside India, respective code may be 
used. If Pin code is not available, use XXXXXX. 
Validation 
A.3.7 Country Code The Country Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned. Use IN for 
India. If Country Code is not available, use XX 
Validation 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
A.3.8 Telephone Telephone number in format STD Code-Telephone number. 
(Example 0120-2894016) 
Validation 
A.3.9 Mobile Contact Mobile number. Please do not add “0” before the number Validation 
A.3.10 Fax Fax number in format STD Code-Telephone number. (Example 0120
2894016) 
Validation 
A.3.11 Email E-mail of the Principal Officer Validation 
B.1.1 Report Serial 
Number 
The number uniquely represents a report within a Statement. The 
Report Serial Number should be unique within the Statement. This 
number along with Statement ID will uniquely identify any report 
received by ITD. 
Validation 
B.1.2 Original 
Report Serial 
Number 
The Report Serial Number of the original report that has to be 
replaced or deleted. This number along with Original Statement ID 
will uniquely identify the report which is being corrected.  
In case there is no correction of any report, mention ‘0’ here. 
Validation 
B.1.3 Account Type Type of account. Permissible values are: 
 BS - Savings Account 
 BC - Current Account 
 BR - Cash Credit/Overdraft Account 
 BD - Credit Card Account 
 BP - Prepaid Card Account 
 BL - Loan Account 
 BT - Term Deposit Account 
 IL - Term Insurance Policy 
 IE - Endowment  Policy 
 IA - Annuity Policy (Excluding ULIP) 
 IU - ULIP Policy 
 IB – Money Back Policy 
 IW – Whole Life Policy 
 ST - Trading Account 
 MF – Mutual Fund Folio 
 DB - Beneficiary Client Account 
 DH - Beneficiary House Account 
 DC - Clearing Member Pool Account  
 ZZ - Others 
 XX - Not Categorised 
Validation 
B.1.4 Account 
Number 
Provide the account number used by the financial institution to 
identify the account. If the financial institution does not have an 
account number then provide the functional equivalent unique 
identifier used by the financial institution to identify the account.  
Validation 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
B.1.5 Account 
Number Type 
Account number type. Permissible values are: 
 01 - International Bank Account Number 
 02 - Other Bank Account Number  
 03 - International Securities Information Number 
 04 - Other Securities Information Number 
 05 - Any other type of account information 
Indian banks may use option 02 above. 
Validation 
B.1.6 Account 
Holder Name 
Name of first/sole account holder. Validation 
B.1.7 Account 
Status 
Status of the account. Permissible values are: 
 A – Active: Account is in regular use/policy in force 
 I – Inactive: Account is not in regular use/ policy lapsed 
 D – Dormant: As defined by regulator (e.g. There is no 
transaction in the account for two years, paid up policy 
lapsed after paying premiums for 3 or more years) 
 S – Suspended: Account/policy is temporarily suspended 
 F – Frozen: Account/policy is frozen (including case of debit 
freeze) 
 C- Closed: Account is closed/policy foreclosed, surrendered, 
death or maturity claim paid 
 Z – Others: Not listed above 
 X - Not categorized: The information is not available.   
Validation 
B.1.8 Account 
Treatment 
Permissible values are: 
 N: New account as per Rule 114H 
 P: Pre-existing as per Rule 114H 
 X: Not applicable 
Mandatory 
B.1.9 Self- 
certification 
Permissible values are: 
 Y: Yes 
 N: No 
 X: Not applicable 
Mandatory 
B.1.10 Documentatio
n Status 
Undocumented as per Rule 114H(3) for pre-existing individual 
account. If the due diligence fails to establish an indicium and the 
attempt to obtain the self-certification or documentary evidence is not 
successful, the reporting financial institution must report the account 
as an undocumented account. 
Permissible values are: 
 D - Documented 
 U - Undocumented 
Validation 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
B.1.11 Date of 
closure of 
account, if 
closed during 
the reporting 
period 
Date of closure of account. This information is mandatory if the 
account was closed during the reporting period 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.2.1 Branch 
Number Type 
The type of branch reference number used. Entities with no Branch 
reference number can use self-generated numbers to uniquely identify 
the branch.   
Permissible values are: 
 R – Regulator Issued 
 B – BIC  
 I – IFSC 
 S – Self generated 
 Z – Other sources 
 X – Self Generated 
IFSC is compulsory in case of banking institutions. 
Validation 
B.2.2 Branch 
Reference 
Number 
The unique number to uniquely identify the branch. Reporting 
Financial Institution can use self-generated numbers to uniquely 
identify the branch.  
Validation 
B.2.3 Branch Name Name of Branch linked to the account. This could be the home or 
linked branch. 
Validation 
B.2.4 Branch 
Address  
Complete address consisting of house number, building name, street, 
locality, city, state etc. 
Validation 
B.2.5 City / Town Name of City, Town or Village Validation 
B.2.6 Postal Code In case of India, the 6 digit Pin code as per India Posts has to be 
mentioned. In case of countries outside India, respective code may be 
used. If Pin code is not available, use XXXXXX. 
Validation 
B.2.7 State Code The two digit state code has to be mentioned as per Indian Motor 
Vehicle Act 1988. If state code is not available, use XX. 
Validation 
B.2.8 Country Code The Country Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned. Use IN for 
India. If Country Code is not available, use XX 
Validation 
B.2.9 Telephone Telephone number in format STD Code-Telephone number. 
(Example 0120-2894016) 
Optional 
B.2.10 Mobile Contact Mobile number. Please do not add “0” before the number Optional 
B.2.11 Fax Fax number in format STD Code-Telephone number. (Example 0120
2894016) 
Optional 
B.2.12 Email E-mail of the Branch head Optional 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
B.3.1 Account 
balance or 
value at the 
end of 
reporting 
period  
The account balance or value of the reported financial account as on 
the last day of the reporting period. In case if the account was closed 
during the reporting period then the balance immediately before 
closure. (Mandatory for all account types) 
The cash value insurance or annuity contract is the balance or value 
of the account. For Debt or equity accounts, the account balance is the 
value of the debt or equity interest that the account holder has in the 
financial institution. 
Validation 
B.3.2 Aggregate 
gross interest 
paid or 
credited   
The aggregate gross amount of interest paid or credited to the account 
during the period.  
This information is mandatory for depository account and custodial 
account. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.3.3 Aggregate 
gross dividend 
paid or 
credited   
The aggregate gross amount of dividend paid or credited to the 
account during the period. This information can be collected from 
other regulated entity. 
This information is mandatory for custodial account. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.3.4 Gross 
proceeds from 
sale of 
property  
The gross proceeds from sale or redemption of property paid or 
credited to the account during the period with respect to which the 
reporting entity acted as a custodian, broker, nominee, or otherwise as 
an agent for the account holder.  
This information is mandatory for custodial account. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.3.5 Aggregate 
gross amount 
of all other 
income paid 
or credited to 
the account  
The aggregate gross amount of all other income paid or credited to 
the account during the period. 
 
This information is mandatory for custodial account. 
 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.3.6 Aggregate 
gross amount 
credited to the 
account 
Aggregate gross amount credited to the account during the period. 
 
Optional  
B.3.7 Aggregate 
gross amount 
debited to the 
account 
Aggregate gross amount debited to the account during the period.  
 
Optional 
B.4.1 Name  Name of the Individual in whose name the account stands. 
This will be mandatory for accounts of individuals. 
Validation 
 Preceding 
Title 
Title of the person such as “His Excellency”, “Estate of the late”. Optional* 
 Title Greeting title of the reported person such as Mr., Dr., Mrs., Herr etc. 
Can have multiple titles 
Optional* 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
 First Name First name of the person. In case if the first name is not available, no 
first name or NFN may be used here. 
Optional* 
 Middle name Middle name (essential part of the name for many nationalities). Eg. 
Shakti in “Nivetha Shakti Shantha”. Can have multiple middle names. 
Optional* 
 Name prefix De, van,van de, von, etc. Example: Derick de Clarke Optional* 
 Last Name Represents the position of the name in a name string. 
Can be Given name, Forename, Christian name, Surname, Family 
name etc. 
In case of a company, this field can be used for the company name. 
Optional* 
 Generation 
Identifier 
The identifier of generation such as Jnr, Thr, III Optional* 
 Suffix Could be compressed initials such as: Phd, VC, QC Optional* 
 General 
Suffix 
Deceased, retired etc. Optional* 
 Name Type It is possible for an individual or entity to have several names. This is 
a qualifier to indicate the type of a particular name. Such types 
include nick names (“nick”), names under which a party does 
business (“dba” a short name for the entity, or a name that is used for 
public acquaintance instead of the official business name) etc. The 
possible values are: 
 N1= SMFAliasOrOther  
 N2= indiv 
 N3= alias 
 N4= nick 
 N5= aka 
 N6= dba 
 N7= legal 
 N8= atbirth 
Optional* 
B.4.2 Customer ID Customer ID/Number allotted by the reporting entity. This 
information is mandatory if Customer ID/Number is allotted. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.4.3 Father's Name  Name of the father. This information is mandatory if valid PAN is not 
reported. 
Optional 
B.4.4 Spouse’s 
Name  
Name of the spouse, if available Optional 
B.4.5 Gender     Permissible values are: 
 M - Male 
 F - Female 
 O - Others 
Validation 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
B.4.6 PAN Permanent Account Number issued by Income-tax Department. 
This information is mandatory if PAN is required to be collected as 
per regulatory guidelines.  
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.4.7 Aadhaar 
Number 
Aadhar number issued by UIDAI Optional 
B.4.8 Identification 
Type 
Document submitted as proof of identity of the individual. 
Permissible values are: 
 A - Passport 
 B - Election Id Card 
 C - PAN Card 
 D - ID Card 
 E - Driving License 
 G - UIDAI Letter 
 H - NREGA job card 
 Z – Others 
 X – Not Categorised 
Validation 
B.4.9 Identification 
Number 
Number mentioned in the identification document. This information 
is mandatory if PAN or Aadhar number is not reported 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.4.10 Occupation 
Type 
Permissible values are: 
 S - Service 
 B - Business 
 O - Others 
 X - Not Categorised 
Validation 
B.4.11 Occupation  Please specify occupation of the individual. Optional 
B.4.12 Birth Date This data element identifies the date of birth of the Individual 
Account Holder. The data format is DD/MM/YYYY.  
This information is mandatory if valid PAN is not reported. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.4.13 Nationality 2 character Country Code (ISO 3166) Validation 
B.4.14 Country of 
Residence as 
per tax laws 
This data element describes the tax residence country code(s) for the 
individual being reported upon and must be present in all data 
records. 
The Country Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned. If the 
individual is certified or treated as tax resident in more than one 
jurisdiction then this element may be repeated.  
Validation 
B.4.15 Place of Birth  Place of Birth.  (Optional) 
Mandatory 
 City Sub 
entity of birth 
City Sub entity of birth Optional* 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
B.4.16 Country of 
Birth  
This data element describes the Country of birth for the individual. 
The Country Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned.  
This information is mandatory for foreign national or non-resident. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
 Former 
Country 
Name 
Former name of the country  Optional* 
B.4.17 Foreign Tax 
Identification 
Number  
(TIN) allotted 
by tax resident 
country 
This data element identifies the Tax Identification Number (TIN) 
used by the residence country of the reported account holder to 
identify the Individual Account Holder. In case if there is no TIN, 
provide functional equivalent. 
This information is mandatory for foreign national or non-resident. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.4.18 TIN Issuing 
Country 
This attribute identifies the jurisdiction that issued the TIN.  The 
Country Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned. If Country Code 
is not available, use XX. 
This information is mandatory for foreign national or non-resident in 
certain situations. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.4.19 Address Type Indicates the type of the address. Permissible values are: 
 1- Residential Or Business 
 2 - Residential 
 3 - Business 
 4 – Registered Office 
 5 – Unspecified 
Validation 
B.4.20 Address  Complete address consisting of house number, building name, street, 
locality, city, state etc. 
Validation 
 Street  Optional* 
 Building 
Identifier 
 Optional* 
 Suite 
Identifier 
 Optional* 
 Floor 
Identifier 
 Optional* 
 District Name  Optional* 
 POB  Optional* 
B.4.21 City / Town Name of City, Town or Village Validation 
B.4.22 Postal Code In case of India, the 6 digit Pin code as per India Posts has to be 
mentioned. In case of countries outside India, respective code may be 
used. If Pin code is not available, use XXXXXX. 
Validation 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
B.4.23 State Code The two digit state code has to be mentioned as per Indian Motor 
Vehicle Act 1988. In case of countries outside India, or if state code 
is not available, use XX. 
Validation 
B.4.24 Country Code The Country Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned. Use IN for 
India. If Country Code is not available, use XX 
Validation 
B.4.25 Mobile/Telep
hone Number 
Primary Telephone (STD Code-Telephone number) or mobile 
number (Please do not add “0” before the number) 
Optional 
B.4.26 Other Contact 
Number 
 Other Telephone (STD Code-Telephone number) or mobile number 
(Please do not add “0” before the number) 
Optional 
B.4.27 Remarks  Any additional information related to individual Optional 
B.5.1 Name of the 
Entity 
Name of the Legal Entity Validation 
 Name Type Name type of the legal entity Optional* 
B.5.2 Customer ID Customer ID/Number allotted by the reporting entity. This 
information is mandatory if Customer ID/Number is allotted. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.5.3 Account 
Holder Type 
for US 
Reportable 
Person 
The permissible values are: 
 F1 - Owner-Documented FI with specified US owner(s) 
 F2 - Passive Non-Financial Entity with substantial US 
owner(s) 
 F3 - Non-Participating FFI 
 F4 - Specified US Person 
 F5 - Direct Reporting NFFE 
 XX –Not Applicable 
Validation 
B.5.4 Account 
Holder Type 
for Other 
Reportable 
Person 
The permissible values are: 
 C1-  Passive Non-Financial Entity with – one or more 
controlling person that is a Reportable Person 
 C2 - Other Reportable Person 
 C3 - Passive Non-Financial Entity that is a CRS Reportable 
 XX – Not Applicable 
Validation 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
B.5.5 Entity 
Constitution 
Type 
Permissible values are: 
 A - Sole Proprietorship 
 B - Partnership Firm 
 C - HUF 
 D - Private Limited Company 
 E- Public Limited Company 
 F- Society 
 G- AOP/BOI 
 H - Trust 
 I – Liquidator 
 J – Limited Liability Partnership 
 K- Artificial Juridical Person 
 Z - Others 
 X – Not Categorised. 
Validation 
B.5.6 Date of 
Incorporation 
To be reported in DD/MM/YYYY format. This information is 
mandatory if valid PAN is not reported. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
 Nature of 
Business 
Nature of Business. This information is mandatory if it is captured. (Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.5.7 Business 
Code 
Business Code as per Income Tax Return form Optional* 
B.5.8 PAN Permanent Account Number issued by Income-tax Department. 
This information is mandatory if PAN is required to be collected as 
per regulatory guidelines. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.5.9 Identification 
Type 
This Attribute defines the type of identification number being sent  
 T- TIN 
 C- Company Identification Number 
 G- US GIIN 
 E- Global Entity Identification Number (EIN) 
 O - Other 
This data element can be repeated if a second Identification  is present  
Validation 
B.5.10 Identification 
No. 
This data element provides the identification number used. (Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.5.11 Identification 
issuing 
Country  
2 character Country Code (ISO 3166).  (Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.5.12 Place of 
Incorporation 
Place of Incorporation.  (Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.5.13 Country of 
Incorporation 
This data element describes the Country of Incorporation for the 
entity. The Country Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
B.5.14 Country of 
Residence as 
per tax laws 
This data element describes the tax residence country for the entity 
being reported upon and must be present in all data records. The 
Country Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned. If the entity is 
certified or treated as tax resident in more than one jurisdiction then 
this element may be repeated.  
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.5.15 Tax 
Identification 
Number 
(TIN)#  
allotted by tax 
resident 
country 
This data element identifies the Tax Identification Number (TIN) 
used by the residence country of the reported account holder to 
identify the Individual Account Holder. In case if there is no TIN, 
provide functional equivalent. 
 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.5.16 TIN Issuing 
Country# 
This attribute identifies the jurisdiction that issued the TIN. 
(Mandatory for Foreign national or Non Resident).  The Country 
Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.5.17 Address Type Indicates the type of the address. Permissible values are: 
 1- Residential Or Business 
 2 - Residential 
 3 - Business 
 4 – Registered Office 
 5 – Unspecified 
 
B.5.18 Address  Complete address consisting of house number, building name, street, 
locality, city, state etc. 
Validation 
 Street  Optional* 
 Building 
Identifier 
 Optional* 
 Suite 
Identifier 
 Optional* 
 Floor 
Identifier 
 Optional* 
 District Name  Optional* 
 POB  Optional* 
B.5.19 City / Town Name of City, Town or Village Validation 
B5.20 Postal Code In case of India, the 6 digit Pin code as per India Posts has to be 
mentioned. In case of countries outside India, respective code may be 
used. If Pin code is not available, use XXXXXX. 
Validation 
B.5.21 State Code The two digit state code has to be mentioned as per Indian Motor 
Vehicle Act 1988. If state code is not available, use XX. 
Validation 
B.5.22 Country Code The Country Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned. Use IN for 
India. If Country Code is not available, use XX 
Validation 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
B.5.23 Mobile/Telep
hone Number 
Primary Telephone (STD Code-Telephone number) or mobile 
number (Please do not add “0” before the number) 
Optional 
B.5.24 Other Contact 
Number 
 Other Telephone (STD Code-Telephone number) or mobile number 
(Please do not add “0” before the number) 
Optional 
B.5.25 Remarks  Any additional information related to Entity. Optional 
B.6.1 Controlling 
Person Type 
Type of the controlling person: 
Permissible values are: 
 C01-CP of legal person-ownership 
 C02-CP of legal person-other means 
 C03-CP of legal person-senior managing official 
 C04-CP of legal arrangement-trust-settlor 
 C05-CP of legal arrangement--trust-trustee 
 C06-CP of legal arrangement--trust-protector 
 C07-CP of legal arrangement--trust-beneficiary 
 C08-CP of legal arrangement--trust-other 
 C09--CP of legal arrangement—Other-settlor equivalent 
 C10--CP of legal arrangement—Other-trustee equivalent 
 C11--CP of legal arrangement—Other-protector equivalent 
 C12--CP of legal arrangement—Other-beneficiary 
equivalent 
 C13--CP of legal arrangement—Other-other equivalent 
 C14--Unknown 
Mandatory 
B.6.2 Name  Name of the Controlling Person i.e. natural persons who exercise 
control over an entity and includes a beneficial owner as determined 
under to sub-rule (3) of rule 9 of Prevention of Money-laundering 
(Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005.   
Reporting of Controlling person is mandatory for accounts of Passive 
Non-Financial Entity (F2, C1) 
Validation 
 Preceding 
Title 
Title of the person such as “His Excellency”, “Estate of the late”. Optional* 
 Title Greeting title of the reported person such as Mr., Dr., Mrs., Herr etc. 
Can have multiple titles 
Optional* 
 First Name First name of the person. In case if the first name is not available, no 
first name or NFN may be used here. 
Optional* 
 Middle name Middle name (essential part of the name for many nationalities). Eg. 
Shakti in “Nivetha Shakti Shantha”. Can have multiple middle names. 
Optional* 
 Name prefix De, van,van de, von, etc. Example: Derick de Clarke Optional* 
 Last Name Represents the position of the name in a name string. 
Can be Given name, Forename, Christian name, Surname, Family 
name etc. In case of a company, this field can be used for the 
company name. 
Optional* 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
 Generation 
Identifier 
The identifier of generation such as Jnr, Thr, III Optional* 
 Suffix Could be compressed initials such as: Phd, VC, QC Optional* 
 General 
Suffix 
Deceased, retired etc. Optional* 
 Name Type It is possible for an individual or entity to have several names.  
This is a qualifier to indicate the type of a particular name. Such types 
include nick names (“nick”), names under which a party does 
business (“dba” a short name for the entity, or a name that is used for 
public acquaintance instead of the official business name) etc. The 
possible values are: 
 N1= SMFAliasOrOther  
 N2= indiv 
 N3= alias 
 N4= nick 
 N5= aka 
 N6= dba 
 N7= legal 
 N8= atbirth 
Optional* 
B.6.3 Customer ID Customer ID/Number allotted by the reporting entity. This 
information is mandatory if Customer ID/Number is allotted. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.6.4 Father's  
Name  
Name of the father. This information is mandatory if valid PAN is not 
reported. 
Optional 
B.6.5 Spouse’s 
Name  
Name of the spouse, if available Optional 
B.6.6 Gender     Permissible values are: 
 M - Male 
 F - Female 
 O - Others 
Validation 
B.6.7 PAN Permanent Account Number issued by Income Tax Department. 
This information is mandatory if PAN is required to be collected as 
per regulatory guidelines.  
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.6.8 Aadhaar 
Number 
Aadhar number issued by UIDAI Optional 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
B.6.9 Identification 
Type 
Document submitted as proof of identity of the individual. 
Permissible values are: 
 A - Passport 
 B - Election Id Card 
 C - PAN Card 
 D - ID Card 
 E - Driving License 
 G - UIDAI Letter 
 H - NREGA job card 
 Z – Others 
 X – Not Categorised 
Validation 
B.6.10 Identification 
Number 
Number mentioned in the identification document. This information 
is mandatory if PAN or Aadhar number is not reported 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.6.11 Occupation 
Type 
Permissible values are: 
 S - Service 
 B - Business 
 O – Others 
 X - Not Categorised 
Validation 
B.6.12 Occupation  Please specify occupation of the individual. Optional 
B.6.13 Birth Date This data element identifies the date of birth of the Individual 
Account Holder. The data format is DD/MM/YYYY.  
This information is mandatory if valid PAN is not reported. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.6.14 Nationality 2 character Country Code (ISO 3166) Validation 
B.6.15 Country of 
Residence as 
per tax laws 
This data element describes the tax residence country code(s) for the 
individual being reported upon and must be present in all data 
records. 
The Country Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned. If the 
individual is certified or treated as tax resident in more than one 
jurisdiction then this element may be repeated.  
Validation 
B.6.16 Place of Birth  Place of Birth.  (Optional) 
Mandatory 
 City Sub 
entity of birth 
City Sub entity of birth Optional* 
B.6.17 Country of 
Birth  
This data element describes the Country of birth for the individual. 
The Country Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned.  
This information is mandatory for foreign national or non-resident. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
 Former 
Country 
Name 
Former name of the country  Optional* 
   
 
S. No. Element Description Requirement 
B.6.18 Foreign Tax 
Identification 
Number  
(TIN) allotted 
by tax resident 
country 
This data element identifies the Tax Identification Number (TIN) 
used by the residence country of the reported account holder to 
identify the Individual Account Holder. In case if there is no TIN, 
provide functional equivalent. 
This information is mandatory for foreign national or non-resident. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.6.19 TIN Issuing 
Country 
This attribute identifies the jurisdiction that issued the TIN.  The 
Country Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned. If Country Code 
is not available, use XX. 
This information is mandatory for foreign national or non-resident in 
certain situations. 
(Optional) 
Mandatory 
B.6.20 Address Type Indicates the type of the address. Permissible values are: 
 1- Residential Or Business 
 2 - Residential 
 3 - Business 
 4 – Registered Office 
 5 – Unspecified 
Validation 
B.6.21 Address  Complete address consisting of house number, building name, street, 
locality, city, state etc. 
Validation 
 Street  Optional* 
 Building 
Identifier 
 Optional* 
 Suite 
Identifier 
 Optional* 
 Floor 
Identifier 
 Optional* 
 District Name  Optional* 
 POB  Optional* 
B.6.22 City / Town Name of City, Town or Village Validation 
B.6.23 Postal Code In case of India, the 6 digit Pin code as per India Posts has to be 
mentioned. In case of countries outside India, respective code may be 
used. If Pin code is not available, use XXXXXX. 
Validation 
B.6.24 State Code The two digit state code has to be mentioned as per Indian Motor 
Vehicle Act 1988. In case of countries outside India, or if state code 
is not available, use XX. 
Validation 
B.6.25 Country Code The Country Code as per ISO 3166 has to be mentioned. Use IN for 
India. If Country Code is not available, use XX 
Validation 
B.6.26 Mobile/Telep
hone Number 
Primary Telephone (STD Code-Telephone number) or mobile 
number (Please do not add “0” before the number) 
Optional 
Element 
Description 
Requirement 
S. No. 
B.6.27 Other Contact 
Number 
Other Telephone (STD Code-Telephone number) or mobile number 
Optional 
(Please do not add “0” before the number) 
B.6.28 Remarks  
Any additional information related to controlling person  
Optional 
   
 
 
Appendix D : Draft Self-Certification for Individual 
(This Self- Certification is only indicative) 
 
FATCA/CRS Declaration Form 
FATCA/CRS Declaration Form 
Part I- Please fill in the country for each of the following: 
1 Country of: 
a) Birth   
b) Citizenship 
 c) Residence for Tax Purposes   
2 US Person (Yes / No)   
Part II- Please note: 
a. If in all fields above, the country mentioned by you is India and if you do not have US 
person status, please proceed to Part III for signature. 
 
b. if for any of the above field, the country mentioned by you is not India and/or if your US 
person status is Yes, please provide the Tax Payer Identification Number (TIN) or 
functional equivalent as issued in the specific country in the table below: 
i) 
  
TIN 
 Country of Issue 
 ii) 
  
TIN   
Country of Issue   
iii) 
  
TIN   
Country of Issue 
 
 a. In case any of the parameters in Part I indicates that you are a US person or a person 
resident outside of India for tax purpose and you do not have Taxpayer Identification 
Numbers/functional equivalent, please complete and sign the Self-Certification section 
given in Part IV. 
 
b. In case you are declaring US person status as ‘No’ but your Country of Birth is US, please 
   
 
provide document evidencing Relinquishment of Citizenship. If not available provide 
reasons for not having relinquishment certificate 
_________________________________________________________ 
Please also fill Part IV Self-Certification. 
 
Part III- Customer Declaration (Applicable for all customers) 
(i) Under penalty of perjury, I/we certify that: 
1. The applicant is (i) an applicant taxable as a US person under the laws of the United 
States of America (“U.S.”) or any state or political subdivision thereof or therein, 
including the District of Columbia or any other states of the U.S., (ii) an estate the 
income of which is subject to U.S. federal income tax regardless of the source 
thereof. (This clause is applicable only if the account holder is identified as a US 
person) 
2. The applicant is an applicant taxable as a tax resident under the laws of country 
outside India. (This clause is applicable only if the account holder Is a tax 
resident outside of India) 
 (ii) I/We understand that the Bank is relying on this information for the purpose of 
determining the status of the applicant named above in compliance with FATCA/CRS. 
The Bank is not able to offer any tax advice on CRS or FATCA or its impact on the 
applicant. I/we shall seek advice from professional tax advisor for any tax questions.  
(iii) I/We agree to submit a new form within 30 days if any information or certification on 
this form becomes incorrect. 
(iv) I/We agree that as may be required by domestic regulators/tax authorities the Bank may 
also be required to report, reportable details to CBDT or close or suspend my account.  
(v) I/We certify that I/we provide the information on this form and to the best of my/our 
knowledge and belief the certification is true, correct, and complete including the 
taxpayer identification number of the applicant. 
 
Signature :  
  
Name :  
 Date (DD/MM/YYYY) :   
 
 
Part IV- Self-Certification:  
   
 
To be filled only if-  
(a) Name of the country in Part I is other than India and TIN or functional equivalent is not 
available, or  
(b) US person is mentioned as Yes in Part I, and TIN is not available 
I confirm that I am neither a US 
person nor a resident for Tax 
purpose in any country other than 
India, though one or more 
parameters suggest my relation 
with the country outside India. 
Therefore, I am providing the 
following document as proof of my 
citizenship and residency in India. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature 
Document Proof submitted (Pls tick document being submitted) 
     Passport       Election Id Card      PAN Card        Driving License       UIDAI 
Letter       NREGA Job Card   
 
     Govt. Issued ID Card  
_________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix E: Draft Self-Certification for Entities 
(This Self- Certification is only indicative) 
 
Part I 
A. Is the account holder a Government body/International                    
Organization/listed company on recognized stock exchange  
If “No”, then proceed to point B 
If 
 Yes    No 
“yes” please specify name of stock exchange, if you are listed company 
________________________, and proceed to sign the declaration 
B. Is the account holder a (Entity/Financial Institution)                             
tax resident of any country other than India                              
If “yes”, then please fill of FATCA/ CRS Self certification Form   
If “No”, proceed to point C 
C. Is the account holder an Indian Financial Institution                           
If “yes”, please provide your GIIN, if any ________________________ 
If “No”, proceed to point D 
D. Are the Substantial owners or controlling persons in the                    
entity or chain of ownership resident for tax purpose in  
any country outside India or not an Indian citizen 
If “yes”, (then please fill FATCA/ CRS self-certification form)).  
If “No”, proceed to sign the declaration 
Customer Declaration 
( ) Under penalty of perjury, I/we certify that: 
1. The applicant is: 
 Yes   
 Yes   
 Yes   
 No 
 No 
 No 
(i) An applicant taxable as a US person under the laws of the United States of America (“U.S.”) or any state or political 
subdivision thereof or therein, including the District to Columbia or any other states of the U.S., 
(ii) An estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income tax regardless of the source thereof. (This clause is 
applicable only if the account holder is identified as a US person) 
2. The applicant is an applicant taxable as a tax resident under the lows of country outside India. 
(ii) I/We understand that the Bank is relying on this information for the purpose of determining the status of the applicant named 
above in compliance with FATCA/CRS. The Bank is not able to offer any tax advice on FATCA/CRS or its impact on the applicant. 
I/we shall seek advice from professional tax advisor for any tax questions. 
(iii) I/We agree to submit a new form within 30 days if any information or certification on this form becomes incorrect. 
(iv) I/We agree that as may be required by domestic regulators/tax authorities the Bank may also be required to report, 
reportable details to CBDT or close or suspend my account. 
(v) I/We certify that I/we provide the information on this form and to the best of my/our knowledge and belief the certification 
is true, correct, and complete including the taxpayer identification number of the applicant. 
Name of the Entity  
Signature1                                                                 
Signature 2                                  
Signature 3                                                                 
( As per MOP) 
Date :________ 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Part II 
 
 
Self-Certification Form (Entity) for Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (“FATCA”) and 
Common Reporting Standards (CRS) 
 
Section 1:  Entity information 
 
Name of Entity 
 
 
Customer id (if existing)  
Entity Constitution Type  
 
 
Entity Identification type  
 
 T         G     C         E          O 
Entity Identification No 
 
 
Entity Identification issuing 
country 
 
Country of Residence for tax 
purpose 
 
 
Section 2:  Classification of Non-Financial entities 
 
I/We (on behalf of the entity) certify that the entity is:  
 
a) An entity incorporated and taxable in US (Specified US person)                      Yes    No 
 
   If “Yes”, please provide your U.S. Taxpayer Identification       
Number (TIN)  
 
 
 
b) An entity incorporated and taxable outside of India (other than US)                Yes    No 
 
   If “Yes”, please provide your TIN or its functional equivalent  
 
       
   Provide your TIN issuing country        _______________________ 
 
c) Please provide the following additional details if you are not a Specified US Person : 
TIN 
  -        
TIN 
  -        
   
 
FATCA / CRS classification for Non-financial entities (NFFE) 
  Active NFFE  
  Passive NFFE without any controlling Person 
  Passive NFFE with Controlling Person(s): 
 
     US          Others   
 Direct Reporting NFFE (Choose this if any entity has registered itself for direct reporting for 
FATCA and thus bank is not required to do the reporting) 
Please provide GIIN number: ____________________ 
 
 
 
Section 3:  Classification of financial institutions (including Banks) 
 
I/We (on behalf of the entity) certify that the entity is : 
 
a. An entity is a U.S. financial institution                                                        Yes    No   
 
If “Yes”,  
(i) Please provide your Taxpayer Identification Number 
(TIN)    
 
 
(ii) Please provide GIIN, if any   __________________________________ 
 
If “No”, please  tick one of the following boxes below: 
 
FATCA classification 
Please provide the Global 
Intermediary Identification 
number (GIIN) or other 
information where 
applicable   Reporting Foreign Financial Institution in a Model 1 
Inter-Governmental Agreement (“IGA”) Jurisdiction 
 
 Reporting Foreign Financial Institution in a Model 2 
IGA Jurisdiction 
 
    Participating FFI in a Non-IGA Jurisdiction  
  Non-reporting FI  
   Non-Participating FI  
   Owner-Documented FI with specified US owners  
 
TIN 
  -        
   
 
 
 
 
Section 4: Controlling person declaration 
 
If you are classified as “Passive NFFE with Controlling Person(s)” or “Owner documented FFI” or 
“Specified US person”, please provide the following details: 
Name of 
controlling 
person 
Correspondence 
Address 
Country of 
residence 
for tax 
purpose 
TIN TIN issuing 
country 
Controlling person 
type 
      
      
      
      
      
 
Details Controlling 
person 1 
 
Controlling 
person 2 
Controlling 
person 3 
Controlling 
person 4 
Controlling 
person 5 
Identification 
Type 
 
     
Identification 
Number 
     
Occupation Type      
Occupation      
Birth Date      
Nationality      
Country of Birth      
 
Section 5:  Declaration 
(i) Under penalty of perjury, I/we certify that: 
1. The number shown on this form is the correct taxpayer identification number of the applicant, 
and 
2. The applicant is (i) an applicant taxable as a US person under the laws of the United States of 
America (“U.S.”) or any state or political subdivision thereof or therein, including the District of 
Columbia or any other states of the U.S., (ii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. 
federal income tax regardless of the source thereof, or  
3. The applicant Is an applicant taxable as a tax resident under the laws of country outside India. 
(ii) I/We understand that the Bank is relying on this information for the purpose of determining the 
status of the applicant named above in compliance with CRS/FATCA. The Bank is not able to offer 
any tax advice on CRS or FATCA or its impact on the applicant. I/we shall seek advice from 
professional tax advisor for any tax questions.  
(iii) I/We agree to submit a new form within 30 days if any information or certification on this form gets 
changed. .  
(iv) I/ We agree as may be required by /Regulatory authorities, bank shall be required to comply to 
report, reportable details to CBDT or close or suspend my account. 
(v) I/We certify that I/we provide the information on this form and to the best of my/our knowledge 
and belief the certification is true, correct and complete including the tax payer identification 
number of the applicant. 
   I/We hereby confirm that details provided are accurate, correct and complete 
S.V. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Authorized Signatories and Company Seal (if applicable)  
Name  
Date (DD/MM/YYYY) 
_____________________________ 
_____________________________ 
_________________________________________________ 
Appendix F: Notification No 4/2016 dated 06.04.2016 
DGIT(S)-ADG(S)-2/e-filing notification/106/2016 
Government of India 
Ministry of Finance 
Central Board of Direct Taxes 
Directorate of Income Tax (Systems) 
Notification No 4/2016  
New Delhi,    April, 2016 
Procedure for registration and submission of statement as per clause (k) of sub section (1) 
of section 285BA of Income-tax Act, 1961 read with Sub rule (7) of Rule 114G of Income
tax Rules, 1962 
As per Sub rule (10)(a) of Rule 114G of the Income Tax Rules, 1962 (hereunder referred 
as the Rules), every reporting financial institution shall communicate to the Principal Director 
General of Income-tax (Systems) the name, designation and communication details of the 
Designated Director and the Principal Officer. As per Sub rule (9)(a) of Rule 114G, the 
statement referred to in sub-rule (7) of Rule 114G shall be furnished through online transmission 
of electronic data to a server designated for this purpose under the digital signature in accordance 
with the data structure specified in this regard by the Principal Director General of Income-tax 
(Systems). Further as per sub rule (9)(b) of Rule 114G Principal Director General of Income Tax 
(Systems) shall specify the procedures, data structures and standards for ensuring secure capture 
and transmission of data, evolving and implementing appropriate security, archival and retrieval 
policies. 
2. 
In exercise of the powers delegated by Central Board of Direct Taxes (‘Board’) under 
Sub rule (9)(a) and 9(b) of Rule 114G  of the Income tax Rules 1962, the Principal Director 
General of Income-tax (Systems) hereby lays down the following procedures: 
a) Generation of ITDREIN: The reporting financial institution is required to get 
registered with the Income Tax Department by logging in to the e-filing website 
(http://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/) with the log in ID used for the purpose of 
filing the Income Tax Return of the reporting financial institution. A link to register 
reporting financial institution has been provided under “My Account>Manage 
ITDREIN”. The reporting financial institution is required to apply for different 
ITDREIN for different reporting entity categories. Once ITDREIN is generated, the 
reporting entity will receive a confirmation e-mail on the registered e-mail ID and 
SMS at registered mobile number. There will be no option to de-activate ITDREIN, 
once ITDREIN is created. 
b) Submission of details of reporting entity: After generation of ITDREIN, the 
reporting financial institution will be required to submit details of the reporting entity 
on the screen. Once registered, the reporting entity will have an option to edit the 
details. 
c) Registration of designated director and principal officer: After submission of 
reporting entity details, the reporting financial institution will be required to submit the 
details of designated director and principal officer. The designated director and 
principal officer will receive a confirmation e-mail with an activation link. An SMS 
along with OTP (One time Password) will also be sent to the registered Mobile 
Number. For completion of registration, the designated director and principal officer 
should click on the Activation link, enter the Mobile PIN(OTP), Password and Confirm 
Password and click on Activate Button. On success, the registration will be complete. 
d) Submission of Form 61B: Every reporting financial institution is required to submit 
the Statement of Reportable Account in Form 61B or submit Nil statement. The 
prescribed schema for Form 61B and a utility to prepare XML file can be downloaded 
from the e-filing website home page under forms (other than ITR) tab. The designated 
director is required to login to the e-filing website with the ITDREIN, PAN (of the 
designated director) and password The form is required to be submitted using a Digital 
Signature Certificate of the designated director.  
e) Submission of Nil statement: In case nil statement is to be submitted, the option to 
submit Nil statement is required to be selected. The designated director will then be 
required to submit a declaration with respect to pre-existing accounts (As defined in 
Rule 114H(2)(h) of Income Tax Rules, 1962) and new accounts (As defined in Rule 
114H(2)(d) of Income Tax Rules, 1962). The declaration is required to be submitted 
using a Digital Signature Certificate.  
f) Existing registered entities: The reporting financial institutions that are already 
registered as an reporting entity for Form 61B with the Income tax Department will be 
able to view the ITDREIN details after logging in to the e-filing under “My 
Account>Manage ITDREIN”. E-mail will be sent to the designated director for the 
activation of its access. Once activated, it will be able to view the existing form 61B/nil 
statement and will be able to upload 61B/nil statement. 
3. 
In view of the changes mentioned above, the procedures prescribed in Notification 3 
dated 25th August, 2015 and Notification No 4 dated 4th September, 2015 stands withdrawn 
forthwith.  -sd- 
(Gopal Mukherjee) 
Pr. DGIT (Systems), CBDT 
Appendix G: Form 61B- Steps to Upload 
Form 61B – Steps to upload 
   
 
 
Contents 
 
Prerequisites to upload Form 61B ............................................................................................... 186 
JAVA Utility – General Instructions ............................................................................................. 186 
Step 1: ITDREIN Generation.......................................................................................................... 186 
Step 2: Addition/deactivation of Authorised Person ............................................................. 187 
Step 3: Preparation of Form 61B for submission .................................................................. 187 
Step 4: Preparation DSC Signature File (Original Form 61B and Correction Form 
61B) ......................................................................................................................................................... 188 
Step 5: Uploading Form 61B ......................................................................................................... 189 
Step 6: Submission of Nil return .................................................................................................. 189 
Validation Rules – Form 61B Post upload ................................................................................. 190 
 
Prerequisites to upload Form 61B 
 Entity PAN should be registered in e-Filing Portal 
 ITDREIN should be generated after logging in with Entity PAN 
 EMAIL ID and Mobile Number of Authorized Person (designated director or principal 
officer) should be specified 
 Activation Link and Mobile Number will be sent to EMAIL ID and Mobile Number of 
Authorized Person 
 Designated Director and Principal Officer PAN should be Valid and registered in 
e-Filing  
 Only Designated Director can Upload and View Form 61B where as Principal 
Officer Can only view Form 61B 
 Designated Director DSC should be valid and registered in e-Filing portal 
JAVA Utility – General Instructions  
 The JAVA utility of Form 61B will help in generating a zip file for uploading in e-Filing 
portal. A valid zip file can be generated only after filling all the mandatory fields.  
Option of “Import CSV” is available and the Instructions to fill CSV file are provided 
under “Help” link within the utility. 
 To know more on how to install/configure and run java, please click here 
 Pre-requisites for running the JAVA utility 
1. The JAVA utility can be run on operating systems like Windows 7.0 or above, 
latest Linux and Mac OS 10.10(OS X Yosemite), where Java Runtime 
Environment Version 7 Update 6 (jre 1.7 is also known as jre version 7) or above 
is installed. 
2. To download java, please use the link  Java Runtime Environment Version 
7 Update 6 or above(32 bit) (jre 1.7/7). 
3. Make sure you have the latest version of the utility before you start filling the 
information into the utility. 
4. The downloaded ZIP folder of Form 61B should be Extracted/Unzipped before 
opening the JAVA utility. 
 To know more about the process of Registration, Upload & View of Form 61B using 
ITDREIN, please click here. 
Step 1: ITDREIN Generation 
 Login to e-Filing Using Entity PAN user id and credentials  
 Navigate to tab “My Accounts”  Select “Manage ITDREIN” 
186 | P a g e 
 Click “Generate New ITDREIN” 
 Select “Form Type” from the drop down provided 
 Select “Reporting Entity Category” from the drop down provided 
 Fill all the “Mandatory fields”  Click on “Generate ITDREIN” 
 Success message is displayed 
Step 2: Addition/deactivation of Authorised 
Person 
 Click on the ITDREIN (16 Alpha number “User ID”) link for which the Authorised 
person to be added 
 Click on “Add Authorised Person” 
 Select “Authorised Person Type”  
o “Designated Director” – Can Upload and View Form 61B 
o “Principal Officer” – Can only View the uploaded Form 
 Fill all the “Mandatory fields”  Click on “Add Authorised Person” 
 Activation link is sent to the Authorised Person EMAIL ID and PIN to the mobile 
number updated. 
 Authorised Person needs to activate the link, update the PIN received through the 
registered mobile and set the password to login to e-Filing 
To deactivate/change authorized person: 
 Click on the ITDREIN under which the “Authorised Person” to be De-activated. 
 Click on the De-activate link to de-activate the Authorised Person 
 To add another Authorised Person for the generated ITDREIN, click on Add 
Authorised person as appearing below the table and follow the process as 
mentioned in “Steps to add Authorized person” section above 
Step 3: Preparation of Form 61B for 
submission 
 E-Filing Home page Download Form 61B utility under “Forms (Other than 
ITR) 
 Extract the downloaded Form 61B utility  
 Fill all the mandatory fields 
 Click on “Generate XML”  Zip file is generated  
  
187 | P a g e 
Step 4: Preparation DSC Signature File 
(Original Form 61B and Correction Form 61B) 
 E-Filing Home page  “Download DSC Management Utility” 
 Extract the DSC Management utility 
 Navigate to the Tab “Bulk Upload” 
o Select the ZIP file to be Signed (Browse the 61B Zip File)  
o Enter e-Filing User id (ITDREIN User ID) 
o Enter PAN of the DSC (Authorized Person Pan) 
o Select the type of DSC (PFX or USB Token) 
o Select your certificate Keystore (Browse the DSC file).  
 Click “Generate Signature File” Save the file 
Note: - DSC should be of the Designated Director pan which is registered in the e-Filing.  
188 | P a g e 
Step 5: Uploading Form 61B 
 Click on Login  Enter “16 digit ITDREIN User ID” 
 Enter Authorised person PAN 
 Enter Password 
 Navigate to tab “e-File”  Click on upload Form 61B 
 Select the “Calendar Year” from the drop down provided 
 Select the “Type of Filing” from the drop down provided 
o Original Form 61B 
o Correction Form 61B 
o Submit Nil Statement 
 Click on “Validate” to proceed further  
 Upload the “Zip file” generated using the Form 61B Utility 
 Upload the “DSC Signature file” generated using the DSC utility 
 Click on “Upload” 
 Success message is displayed. 
Note: - DSC should be of the Designated Director pan which is registered in the e-Filing. 
Step 6: Submission of Nil return 
 Click on Login  Enter “16 digit ITDREIN User ID” 
 Enter Authorised person PAN 
 Enter Password 
 Navigate to tab “e-File”  Click on upload Form 61B 
 Select the “Calendar Year” from the drop down provided 
 Select the “Type of Filing” from the drop down provided 
o Submit Nil Statement 
 Click on “Validate” to proceed further 
 Upload the “DSC Signature file” generated using the DSC utility 
 Select the radio button “For pre-existing accounts (As defined in Rule 
114H(2)(h))” 
 Select the radio button “For New accounts (As defined in Rule 114H(2)(d))” 
 Click on “Submit” 
 Success message is displayed. 
Note: - DSC should be of the Designated Director pan which is registered in the e-Filing. 
189 | P a g e 
Validation Rules – Form 61B Post upload 
Rule 
ID 
Description 
Element 
Reference (Notified 
Form) 
1 
Number of Reports mentioned in Part A 
does not match with actual number of 
reports in Part B. 
Number of 
Reports 
2 
The Report Serial Number is not unique 
within the Statement. 
A.2.8 
Report Serial 
Number 
3 
Valid Option for Account Holder Type for 
US Reportable Person is not selected in  
report of US reportable accounts under 
Rule 114G 
B.1.1 
Account Holder 
Type for US 
Reportable 
Person 
4 
Valid Option for Account Holder Type for 
Other Reportable Person is not selected in  
report of other reportable accounts under 
Rule 114G 
B.5.3 
Account Holder 
Type for Other 
Reportable 
Person 
B.5.4 
190 | P a g e 
 
 
191 | Page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 