e-TDR/e-STDR (MOD) Frequently Asked Questions

What is e-TDR/e-STDR (Multi Option Deposit) ?
MOD (Multi Option Deposit) accounts are Term Deposits which are linked to transactional Accounts. Unlike normal Term Deposits which are fully liquidated anytime you need funds; one can withdraw funds from MODS at the time of need. Such withdrawal can be made in multiples of Rs.1,000/- by issuing a cheque from Savings Bank Account or from ATM / branch or through any other channel. The balance amount in MODS will continue to earn interest at the rate applicable at the time of initial deposit. The sum of available balance in the transactional account and MOD balance can be used for issuing cheques or withdrawal or making any other payment.

What is the tenure for MODs ?
Minimum 1 year, maximum 5 years.

What are the interest rates for a term deposit ?
The interest rates vary from time to time. You can view the latest interest rates by clicking on "View current interest rate" link provided in e-TDR/e-STDR (MOD) request page.

What is the minimum amount for a term deposit ?
You can open a MOD account with a minimum amount of Rs.10,000 with increments in multiple of Rs. 1000.

Can I generate an MOD account advice ?
Yes, you can generate and print an MOD account advice containing all the relevant details.

In whose name will the MOD account be opened? What will be the mode of operation ?
The name(s) and mode of operation and branch of newly generated MOD a/c will be same as in debit a/c, from which the MOD a/c is funded.

How is the maturity amount calculated? Can I make enquiry before opening e-TDR/e-STDR (MOD) ?
The maturity amount is based on the tenor and type of a/c selected by you. You may enquire the maturity amount, maturity date and rate of interest, without opening e-TDR/e-STDR(MOD) through "Enquiry" tab available in e-TDR/e-STDR(MOD) page.

What are the types of accounts from which I can debit an amount for the deposit ?
You can debit a savings account to open MODs. The account selected for debiting should be a valid transactional a/c through Internet Banking channel and should not be a stopped / dormant / locked account.

How can I pre-maturely close my MOD a/c ?
For premature closure of MOD a/c you may use 'close a/c' tab under e-TDR/e-STDR (MOD) link which will close your MOD account instantly if request is initiated between 08:00 AM IST and 08:00 PM IST. Request initiated beyond this period will be scheduled for next opening hours i.e. 08:00 AM IST. The maturity proceeds will automatically be transferred to your debit a/c from which MOD account was originally funded at the time of opening.

Can I close MOD accounts opened at the branch through Internet Banking ?
No.

Can I open online term deposit a/c in any other name(s), not belonging to debit a/c from which term deposit a/c is funded ?
No.

Can I transfer the maturity money to any of my accounts ?
No, maturity amount or the amount payable before maturity, will be transferred only to the debit account from which it was funded.

Can senior citizen avail additional rate of interest on MOD accounts ?
Yes, senior citizens can avail additional rate of interest in e-TDR/e-STDR (MOD). The date of birth in Bank's record will be considered for age calculation. The minimum days and minimum amount applicable for additional rate of interest for senior citizens will be as per Bank's discretion. In case of joint accounts, the senior citizen benefit can be availed only if the first account holder qualifies for this benefit.

Is the term deposit advice generated through SBI online banking system equally valid as that printed through the branch ?
The advice is equally valid as provided by branch. Internet Banking customers are advised to take printout of term deposit advice after generation of deposit a/c. However, if presented at the branch for payment, branch will verify all the details shown in the advice before proceeding further.

How can I add nominees in MOD a/c ?
While opening an e-TDR/e-STDR(MOD), you will be provided with an option to retain the same nominee(s) for MOD a/c as appearing in your debit a/c from which the MOD is funded. Additionally, you can also add nominee during the currency of deposit.

Can I add a new nominee online ?
Yes, you can add new nominee if there is no nomination made at the time of opening the account. Further, you can amend nominee by cancelling existing nomination and make new nomination.

Is there any cut off time for creating e-TDR/e-STDR (MOD) online ?
Yes. e-TDR / e-STDR (MOD) can be created online from 8:00 AM IST to 8:00 PM IST. Requests initiated beyond this period will be scheduled for the next opening hours.

If I open a joint account, who will be liable for Income Tax
Income Tax provisions will be applicable to the first applican.

Can I submit nomination for single person (or) for multiple persons
Nomination is available in favour of individual person only and the nomination shall be made in favour of only one individual.

I do not have PAN number. Can I submit any other document in lieu of PAN
You may submit Form 60/61 as applicable in lieu of PAN with your home branch.

Can I open a Term deposit account through Internet banking?

Yes, if you have Internet banking user name and password, and at least one transaction account mapped to the username.

What is the minimum tenure for an online deposit?

As a general rule the minimum tenure for a term deposit is 7 days and the maximum is 10 years. However Both TDR and STDR are bound by the following minimum and maximum tenures. Minimum tenure is 7 days for TDR and 180 days for STDR and Maximum tenure is 3650 days for TDR and STDR.

What are the interest rates for a term deposit?

The interest rates vary from time to time. You can view the latest interest rates by clicking on 'View current interest rate' link provided in e-TDR/e-STDR request page.

What is the minimum amount for a term deposit?

You can open a term deposit with a nominal amount of Rs.1000/- , however minimum & maximum amount limit may vary for different product codes.

Can I generate a term deposit advice?

Yes, you can generate and print a term deposit advice containing all your relevant details.

In whose name will the term deposit account be opened? What is the mode of operation?

The name(s) and mode of operation and branch of newly generated deposit a/c will be same as in debit a/c, from which term deposit a/c is funded.

How is the maturity amount calculated? Can I make enquiry before opening e-TDR/e-STDR?

The maturity amount is based on the tenor& type of a/c selected by customer. You may enquire the maturity amount, maturity date and rate of interest, without opening e-TDR/e-STDR through 'Enquiry' tab available in e-TDR/e-STDR page.

What are the types of accounts from which I can debit an amount for the deposit?

You can debit a savings, current, or OD account to open term deposit. The account selected for debiting should be valid transactional a/c through Internet Banking channel and should not be a stopped / dormant / locked account.

How can I renew or pre-mature my deposit a/c.?

The Special term deposit a/c will be automatically renewed at the time of maturity if you do not approach Branch for payment / renewal on maturity. For prematurity of deposit a/c you may use 'close a/c' tab under e-TDR/e-STDR link. The maturity proceeds will automatically transfer your debit a/c from which e-TDR/e-STDR was originally funded at the time of opening.

Can I close my e-TDR/e-STDR instantly through 'close a/c' tab?

Yes, you may close your e-TDR/e-STDR instantly if request is initiated between 08:00 AM IST to 08:00 PM IST. Request initiated beyond this period will be scheduled for next opening hours ie 08:00 AM IST.

Can I close TDR/STDR opened at the branch?

No, Only e-TDR/e-STDR can be closed through 'close a/c' tab. TDR/STDR opened at branch can be closed at branch only.

Can I open online term deposit a/c for any other name(s), not belonging to debit a/c from which term deposit a/c is funded.

No, You may contact the branch for the same.

Can I transfer the maturity money to any of my accounts?

No, maturity amount or the amount payable before maturity will be transferred only to the debit account from which it was funded.

Can senior citizen avail additional rate of interest on term deposit?

Yes, Senior citizen can also avail additional rate of interest in e-TDR/e-STDR. The date of birth in Bank's record will be considered for age calculation. The minimum days and minimum amount applicable for additional rate of interest for senior citizen will be as per Bank's policy. In case of joint accounts, the Senior Citizen benefit can be availed only if the first account holder qualifies for this benefit.

What is the validity of advice automatically generated through SBI online banking system?

The advice is equally valid as provided by branch. Internet Banking customers are advised to take printout of term deposit advice after generation of deposit a/c. However if presented at the Branch for payment, Branch will verify all the details shown in advice before proceeding further.

How can I add nominees in Term Deposit a/c?

While opening an e-TDR/e-STDR, you will be provided with an option to retain the nominee(s) for term deposit a/c as in debit a/c from which it is funded

Can I add a new nominee online?

No, you will have to visit your branch for adding a new nominee.

Is there any cut off time for creating e-TDR/e-STDR online?

Yes. e-TDR / e-STDR can be created online from 8:00 AM IST to 8:00 PM IST. Requests initiated beyond this period will be scheduled for the next opening hours.

Can I open fixed deposit for tax exemption under Sec 80C of Income Tax Act?

Yes, for this you have to choose the option 'e-TDR / e-STDR under Income Tax Saving Scheme'.