Lead Bank scheme
The Lead Bank Scheme, introduced in year
1969
, envisages assignment of lead roles to individual banks for the districts allotted to them. The lead bank acts as a leader for coordinating the efforts of all credit institutions in the allotted districts to increase the flow of credit to agriculture, MSE and other economic activities with the district being the basic unit in terms of geographical area. SBI has been assigned lead bank responsibility
in 275 districts
.
(details are furnished in Annexure-I)
Lead Districts allotted to SBI
Annexure I- ENGLISH
Annexure II- HINDI
STATE LEVEL BANKERS COMMITTEE
State Level Bankers' Committees are formed in all the States for inter-institutional coordination and joint implementation of programmes and policies by all the financial institutions operating in the State. Responsibility for convening State Level Bankers Committee
(SLBC)
meetings has been assigned to various commercial banks. SLBC meetings, held quarterly, provide for interaction amongst the various banks in the State on one hand and between the banks and the State Government authorities on the other.
SBI has been assigned responsibility of convenorship of SLBC in
12
States and 2 Union Territory.
(details are furnished in Annexure II))
Contact details of SLBC
Annexure II
State Level Banker's Committee
State Level Bankers' Committees are formed in all the States for inter-institutional coordination and joint implementation of programmes and policies by all the financial institutions operating in the State. Responsibility for convening State Level Bankers Committee
(SLBC)
meetings has been assigned to various commercial banks. SLBC meetings, held quarterly, provide for interaction amongst the various banks in the State on one hand and between the banks and the State Government authorities on the other.
SBI has been assigned responsibility of convenorship of SLBC in 12 States and 2 Union Territory.
(details are furnished in Annexure II)
SLBC Dashboard has been developed in MIS-Online for providing standardised data/ information of the Bank.
Contact details of SLBC
Annexure II
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 03-12-2025