About Us
State Bank of India (SBI) is the leading provider of financial services in India. With total assets of USD 680 billion, total equity of USD 39 billion and 245,642 employees as of March 2021, it is among the top 50 largest banks in the world. SBI is also the only Indian bank included in the Fortune Global 500 list.
In tune with its large employee base, SBI has a robust training system that goes beyond the bounds of the organisation, reaching out to the BFSI sector as a whole, and beyond. Training at State Bank is a proactive, planned, continuous process and an integral part of organisational development.
The vast training system of SBI consists of six Apex Training Institutions (ATIs) and 51 State Bank Institutes of Learning and Development (SBILDs), geographically covering the length and breadth of the country. The entire training system is overseen and controlled by the Strategic Training Unit (STU) at Corporate Centre, Mumbai.
The six ATIs provide training in their respective areas of specialisation.
State Bank Institute of Leadership (SBIL), Kolkata specialises in areas of leadership, management, OrganisationalBehaviour (OB), Organisation Development (OD), Human Resources and Compliance.
State Bank Staff College (SBSC), Hyderabad provides training on retail banking with focus on marketing aspects and customer service.
State Bank Academy (SBA), Gurugram is the centre for training on credit, international banking, risk and compliance.
State Bank Institute of Rural Banking (SBIRB), Hyderabad takes care of training on rural banking and financial inclusion.
State Bank Institute of Innovation and Technology (SBIIT), Hyderabad provides technology and digital training, specializing in IT, innovation and e-learning.
State Bank Foundation Institute (SBFI) - Chetana, Indore takes care of the new entrants to the Bank – Probationary Officers and Trainee Officers, by onboarding them through induction and orientation programmes.
State Bank of India (SBI) thus offers the largest learning and development infrastructure in the BFSI space in India for not only bankers of SBI but also other banks. We are equipped to cater to the need of all banking domains including executive education areas, by conducting business analytics driven relevant training programmes.
State Bank Institute of Leadership (SBIL) requires special mention in this regard.
SBIL aims to impart knowledge and expertise in areas of strategic management and organizational behaviour to senior managers and top executives.
With a vision of grooming future leaders in the BFSI sector in India, SBIL focuses its energy on the theme of leadership. Specific programmes offered by SBIL are Strategic Leadership Programme, Advanced Leadership Programme and Leadership Development Programme, which are customized from time to time as per the target group’s training needs.
The programmes offered by SBIL are on various aspects of leadership and organizational behaviour such as self-development, soft skills and leadership skills.
Programmes on self-development include Assertiveness & Self-esteem, Role Efficacy, Thinking Critically, Emotional Intelligence, Lateral Thinking, Integrating Life and Work, Time and Stress Management, Professionalism and Etiquette etc.
Programmes on soft skills include Public Speaking, Effective Communication, Handling Crucial Conversations, Business Correspondence, Conflict Management, Building People Skills, Developing Interpersonal Skills among others.
Programmes on leadership skills include Situational Leadership, Ethics in LeadershipCollaborative Leadership, Leadership in the Digital Age, Adaptive Leadership, Resonant Leadership, Transformational Leadership, Leadership Communication, Building High Performance Teams, Leading through Emotional Intelligence, Counselling Skills, Decision making Skills, Change Management, Executive Presence, Strategy, Innovation & Change, Programme for Women Leaders, Negotiation Skills for Leaders and so on.
SBIL also conducts programmes like Faculty Development Programme and Behaviour Science Programme for Trainers.
SBIL, located in International Financial Hub in New Town, Kolkata, has a world-class infrastructure having an unmatched décor providing great living and academic experience. The SBIL campus is spread over 10 acres of land. It has 5 state of the art classrooms, 2 multi utility modernized halls, 22 discussion rooms, and 3 conference halls with Video Conferencing facilities, along with a 350+ seater auditorium. Residential accommodation for participants is provided in two executive hostels with a total capacity of 200 rooms (single occupancy) with star facilities. For the health conscious and games enthusiasts, there is a multi-gym, a swimming pool, indoor badminton court, two table tennis boards, billiards room, tennis court, basketball field and also carrom and chess.
We are fully equipped to host corporate events, product launches, HR meets, AGMs, conferences, seminars and conclaves.
SBIL has also courses hosted on edX platform which are tailored for personal and professional growth. You are welcome to enroll for the courses offered by us at the edX website.
Shri
Rajeev Ratna Srivastava
, (General Manager & Director
)
A seasoned banker with experience of over 30 years in State Bank of India, Mr. Rajeev Ratna Srivastava has accumulated vast experience across multiple facets of banking ranging from branch banking, administration, policy making, credit analysis & delivery, business development, alternate channels, and agriculture credit. He has served for over 5 years in Sri Lanka overseeing operations of State Bank of India in the island country as Country Head, managing 5 SBI branches thereat. He was handling corporate governance, regulatory compliances, forex business and technology in addition to his usual role as a banker during his stint in Sri Lanka.
He also worked as vice president of Indian CEO Forum in Colombo, an industry body engaged with government of Sri Lanka for policy interventions and trade agreements for improving contribution of Indian origin industries in Sri Lanka to country’s GDP.
A postgraduate in physics from Delhi University, he has profound interest in use of technology in banking industry. Mr. Srivastava is currently employed at State Bank Institute of Leadership, Kolkata as General Manager & Director.
Faculty
Mr Rishi Deo Ray, DGM (Academics)
Shri Rishi Deo Ray, a Probationary Officer joined in 2001, has held various assignments in the Bank viz., Branch Head in Corporate Credit Group vertical, Credit Policy and Procedures Department in Corporate Centre and many other Credit/Branch assignments in RB&O.
He has various educational qualifications in his kitty; Diploma in Electrical Engineering from IAF, PG Diploma in Translation (English to Hindi and Hindi to English) from SBIOA, Chennai, PG Diploma in Book Publishing from IGNOU, Post Graduation in Hindi and Public Personal Management from Osmania University, Post Graduation in Education and MBA (Banking & Finance) from IGNOU. He is a Certified Associate of IIBF and also holds Moody’s CICC (Certification in Commercial Credit).
Mr. Vikash Lama, DGM(Academics)
Mr. Vikash Lama joined the bank in 1998 as  Probationary Officer and carries more than 25 years of experience in our bank. He brings deep expertise in branch banking, high value credit and employee development. Throughout his career, he has led teams, successfully managed diverse portfolios, enhanced customer relationships & delivered consistent growth while upholding the highest standards of  compliance & governance.
He has also served on an overseas assignment at our bank’s offshore banking unit in Bahrain (Middle East) where he has gained invaluable international exposure and managed high value operations. Equally significant has been his contribution as a Skilled Trainer and as Head of bank’s training centres where he was responsible for shaping talent development and nurturing future leaders of our organisation.
He is passionate about Music, Sports and travelling, reflecting a well rounded and dynamic personality.
Mr. Saurabh Jaiswal, AGM(Faculty)
Saurabh Jaiswal is an experienced banking executive who currently serves with SBIL Kolkata, bringing nearly two decades of diverse expertise to the institution as of August 2024.
His career is distinguished by a comprehensive foundation in critical banking functions, seamlessly blending operational leadership with academics. Mr. Jaiswal's professional breadth is further enhanced by an international assignment in Frankfurt, Germany, where he handled Back Office and Investment Operations, giving him valuable global perspectives in financial markets.
A professional with an MBA in Marketing and a Commerce degree, he began his journey as a Probationary Officer in 2002. His robust experience profile encompasses functioning in branch leadership, compliance, credit and back office & investment roles.
Beyond his executive roles, Mr. Jaiswal has demonstrated a commitment to nurturing future talent by serving as a faculty member at the State Bank Staff College, Hyderabad focusing on organizational excellence and professional development.
Dedicated to discipline and continuous improvement, he maintains an active personal life, centred on fitness, badminton, and reading.
Mr. Madhuker Gupta, AGM & Faculty
Shri Madhuker Gupta had joined the Bank as a Probationary Officer in 2001. In his career of 20 years he has had experience of Branch Management, Customer Service, Credit, IT and Marketing. He has also been a faculty at SBILD Raipur for 4 years during which he was trained as a Behavioural Science trainer.
Shri Gupta joined SBIL Kolkata in September 2021 as AGM & Faculty. In his current role he is responsible for designing and taking sessions on Organisational Behaviour related subjects conducted for internal as well as external participants.
He is a graduate in Civil engineering and PGDBA in marketing. He is passionate about travelling and puzzle solving.
Dr. Neenet Baby Manjaly, Faculty
Dr. Neenet Baby Manjaly is Faculty – Leadership at the State Bank Institute of Leadership (SBIL), State Bank of India, with over 12 years of experience in academia, leadership development, and behavioural training. She holds a PhD in Management from CUSAT and is a UJRF awardee with a fellowship. Her academic qualifications include B.Tech (ECE), MBA (HR & Finance), PGDM, and M.Com. She has also completed the Train-the-Trainer Programme at IIM Indore and the Leadership Assessment Centre & Design Programme at NIBM, Pune.
Her research has been published in reputable national and international journals, focusing on employee engagement, women’s leadership, Banking 5.0, and emerging workforce behaviours. She previously served as External Faculty at the Union Bank Leadership Academy and has been associated with leading academic institutions, including Rajagiri College of Social Sciences (Kochi) and ASIET B-School under APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. A reviewer for reputed academic journals, she continues to design and deliver high-impact leadership and behavioural programmes for banking professionals across the country.
Mr. Samir Nandedkar, AGM & Faculty
Shri Samir Nandedkar is a graduate in Commerce from Amravati University and has also completed CAIIB. His other professional qualifications include certificates in KYC, AML & CFT, International Trade Finance, MSME Finance for Bankers, and Retail Credit. He has 31 years of experience in the Bank with operational experience in Branch Management, Retail Credit, SME Credit & Agriculture Credit, Trade Finance and Vigilance.
Shri Nandedkar is also an experienced trainer, who worked as a member of faculty at SBILD, Panaji, Goa for more than 4 years. He was also trained as Behavioural Science Trainer. He joined SBIL, Kolkata in August 2022. In his current role, he is responsible for designing and taking sessions leadership and on Organisational Behaviour related subjects conducted for internal as well as external participants.
Mr. Amit Daga, AGM(Faculty)
Shri Amit Daga  is an MBA in Marketing  from University of Pune and has also completed CAIIB. His other professional qualifications include certificates in KYC, AML & CFT, International Trade Finance and  MSME Finance for Bankers. He has 12 years of experience in the Bank with operational experience in Branch Management, Retail Credit, SME Credit & Agriculture Credit.
He joined SBIL, Kolkata in August 2023. In his current role, he is responsible for designing and taking sessions on leadership and on Organisational Behaviour related subjects conducted for internal as well as external participants.
Mr. Mretunjay Kumar, AGM & Faculty
Shri Mretunjay Kumar, a graduate in economics and diploma in Journalism, has more than 24 years of experience in various areas of banking as Relationship Manager (NRI Business), Relationship Manager (SME), Branch Manager and Regional Manager. A Moody’s CICC (Certification in Commercial Credit) holder, he has worked as Chief Manager (Credit) in International Banking, looking after Southeast Asia and Middle East Operations and Credit Lines from Export Credit Agencies (ECA). He has also held overseas assignment as Vice President (Credit), at Shanghai, China. Shri Mretunjay Kumar is currently extending his services as AGM & Faculty at SBIL since August 2022.
Research
Sl No
Course Name
1
Brand "Me Unlimited": Personal Leadership Effectiveness
2
Leading Teams for Synergy
3
Leading though Emotional Intelligence
4
Managing Work and Life for Effectiveness
5
Reach Your Goal
Courses Offered
Sl No
Course Name
1
Shakti – Programme for Women Business Leaders
2
Faculty360- Train The Trainer (TTT) Programme for the BFSI Sector
3
Strategic Risk Solutions & Structured Products: Banking Leadership Programme
Nomination
Please send attached nomination form through mail to
academics.sbil@sbi.co.in
and
dgmadmin.sbil@sbi.co.in
with all details.
(Nomination Form)
Modes of Payment
Through NEFT/RTGS to our account :
Beneficiary Name : State Bank Institute of Leadership Kolkata
Account No. : 37243340083
Bank / Branch : SBI Unitech Branch
IFSC Code: SBIN0016916
(Please note UTR No. for nomination form)
Discount
10% to organizations who nominate 5 or more participants for any programme
Contact Us
For Training related information: :
Email ID :
dgmadmin.sbil@sbi.co.in
/
academics.sbil@sbi.co.in
Contact No. :
+91 33 2986 1217 / +91 33 2986 1226
For Payment related queries :
Email ID :
accounts.sbil@sbi.co.in
Contact No. :
+91 33 2962 2542
Location Map :-
State Bank Institute of Leadership
Plot II F/2, Street No. 329
Action Area III
New Town, Rajarhat
Kolkata – 700 160
India
Google Map :
View Map
Infrastructure
SBIL has 5 regular classrooms and 2 multi-utility halls fitted with modern gadgets with maximum capacity of 40 participants each providing a total capacity of 280. In addition, the institute has 22 discussion / meeting rooms / breakout halls having capacity ranging from 5 to 23. SBIL also has 3 conference halls – 2 having capacity of 22 each and 1 of 52 with Video Conferencing facilities.
The library of the institute has both Conventional and Digital section. Conventional Library has collection of around 1850 printed books. It also subscribes to approximately 40 journals/magazines and 14 newspapers. E-Books and E-journals from EBSCO, JSMS, and M/s Sage Publishers are subscribed by the Library. SBIL library is also equipped with IBM SPSS Statistical Base Authorized License & software subscription and Prowess-IQ by CMIE (Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy).
SBIL has a hostel capacity of 196 on a single occupancy basis including 4 rooms for differently abled persons. All hostel rooms are having star-hotel category features. It has two dining rooms which serve sumptuous food and can accommodate all programme participants .
The hub building faces an outdoor amphitheatre and the water body. It accommodates a Table Tennis room and a Billiard room on the ground floor, a Gymnasium and an indoor Badminton Court on the 1st floor. A swimming Pool is present adjacent to the Hub Building. SBIL is equipped with flood lit lawn tennis and basketball courts for the recreation purpose of the training participants. It also has facility for cycling within and outside the campus.
There is a state-of-the-art auditorium having a seating capacity of 387. Equipped with modern audio and visual equipment, it can offer a delight to any performing artiste.
Participants' Voice
"PROGRAMME IS VERY MUCH USEFUL AND ADEQUATE IN BOTH QUALITATIVE WISE & VALUE BASED IN BUILDING FUTURE LEADER WITH STABLE VISION & OPEN MIND."
- DGM, Bank of India, Participant in Strategic Leadership Programme
"LEARNT ABOUT EFFECTIVE DECISION MAKING , TEAM COLLABORATION CREATIVE THINKING ETC. IMPORTANCE OF DELEGATION OF WORK."
- AGM, Corporation Bank, Participant in Strategic Leadership Programme
"I HAVE LEARNT IS THAT ONE MUST KEEP EVOLVING IN LIFE AND UNDERSTAND HUMAN BEHAVIOUR AND CONDUCT IN A MANNER THAT THERE IS AN 'ALL INCLUSIVE' APPROACH TOWARDS THE TEAM THAT YOU ARE LEADING."
- DGM, Bank of India, Participant in Strategic Leadership Programme
"MBTI, LEADERSHIP COMPETENCIES AND TRAITS, EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION, GOAL SETTING, ETC.WONDERFUL EXPERIENCE TO UNDERSTAND MYSELF AND IMPLEMENT LEARNING TO MAKE MYSELF MORE EFFECTIVE AND BE A TRUE LEADER."
- DGM, State Bank of India, Participant in Strategic Leadership Programme
"THE PROGRAMME DESIGNED WAS VERY EFFECTIVE FOR NEWCOMERS LIKE ME AS IT GAVE AN INSIGHT ON HOW EFFECTIVELY WE CAN PUT THE SAME TO USE BACK HOME."
- AGM & Faculty, State Bank Institute of Learning & Development, Participant in Faculty Development Programme
"PROGRAM DESIGNED IN SUCH A WAY THAT ONE CAN INTROSPECT HOW HE/SHE IS FUNCTIONING AS A LEADER AND WAYS TO IMPROVE FURTHER. EXCELLENT PROGRAM WHICH HELPED ME TO CHANGE FOR BETTERMENT."
- AGM, State Bank of India, Participant in Strategic Leadership Programme