Features
The SBI One Touch is an integral part of the daily lifestyle for secure and cashless payments.
Faster checkout at POS terminals, reduce wait times in queues.
Transaction Limits : Rs. 5000/- per transactions and Rs. 15,000/- per day with just a tap and pay.
Enable your NFC and POS through YONO / YONO Lite / Branch
The SBI One Touch can be blocked immediately if it is lost or stolen through YONO / YONO Lite/ Branch / IVR.
Please affix / stick your NFC sticker on your keychain / back side of your mobile.
Transaction Limit
Transaction Limit is ₹ 5,000 per transaction and maximum of ₹ 15,000 per day.
Issuance and Annual Maintenance Charges
Click here for Debit Card related charges
FAQs
What is SBI One Touch?
SBI One Touch are modern versions of traditional debit cards, available as Key Chain and NFC Sticker for contactless digital payments upto Rs. 5,000/- without PIN.
What are the benefits of SBI One Touch?
SBI One Touch offer following benefits to the customers: -
Contactless Payments:
Make Secure transactions by simply tapping the SBI One Touch on a NFC enabled POS terminal.
Modern Solution for Traditional Debit Card:
Available in Key Chain and NFC Sticker offering a sleek and trendy payment option.
Quick Payment:
On-the go payment with Tap and Pay.
What are the different types of SBI One Touch offered by SBI?
SBI offers SBI One Touch in the form of Key Chain and NFC Sticker crafted to suit the needs of our tech-savvy customers.
Where can I purchase / get the SBI One Touch?
Our valued customers are requested to visit the nearest SBI Branch to apply the SBI One Touch. SBI One Touch will be delivered by post to their registered address and can activate through YONO / YONO Lite / Branch for contactless digital payments.
How to activate / use SBI One Touch?
Ask your branch to enable NFC and Set Limit for the transactions. (or)
Log in to your YONO –
Step 1
: Cards – My Debit Card - Select your SBI One Touch debit card – Activate Card – Enter Card Number – OTP Validation.
Step 2
: Cards – My Debit Card – Select your SBI One Touch debit card – Manage Usage & Limits – Enable Domestic Usage, POS & Contactless NFC Transaction and set limit – On OTP Validation your SBI One Touch is ready to use.
How to Block in case of lost / stolen ?
In case of lost or theft, raise a complaint for blocking by visiting the nearest SBI Branch or through YONO / YONO Lite or call our contact centre.
a) Ask your branch to block your SBI One Touch . (or)
b) Log in to your YONO – Cards – My Debit Card – Select your SBI One Touch debit card – Block Card – Select Temporary / Permanent - On OTP Validation your SBI One Touch will be blocked. (or)
c) Log in to your YONO Lite.
Step 1 : Manage Cards – Physical Debit Card – Debit Card Hotlisitng - Select your SBI One Touch debit card –– Select Type of Block ( Temporary / Permanent) - On OTP Validation your SBI One Touch will be blocked. ( or)
d) Through contact centre by providing last 4 digits of your SBI One Touch Keychain / Sticker.
How much fee is applicable for this SBI One Touch?
Issuance fee is Rs. 399/- + applicable GST.
Is there any AMC Fee applicable for this SBI One Touch?
AMC fee is Rs. 200/- + applicable GST
How to use my SBI One Touch on POS terminal?
The contactless digital transaction can be done by simply tapping SBI One Touch on a Contactless -enabled POS terminal.
What is the maximum transaction limit for my SBI One Touch?
The maximum transaction limit permitted for making payments using SBI One Touch is Rs. 5,000 per transaction, maximum of Rs. 15,000 per day. Customer can set the limits through YONO / YONO Lite.
Is SBI One Touch secure?
Yes, SBI One Touch uses a NFC enabled chip with secure encryption technology (same as EMV chip). It is also more secure as you are in control of the device at all times as the device does not leave your hand when you make the payment at the shop.
Will my account be accidentally charged for a contactless transaction just by walking past a contactless terminal?
No. Contactless machines and devices/cards have a limited range. Your SBI One Touch needs to be within 2 to 3cms from the machine to be read successfully.
How to raise a dispute for payments done using the SBI One Touch?
Visit the nearest SBI Branch or call our contact centre 1800 1234 / 1800 2100 /
1800 112211 to raise complaints / disputes.
Are the payments done using SBI One Touch safe and secure?
Yes, SBI One Touch are embedded with Near Field Communication (NFC) chips that activate only when there is a minimal distance between SBI One Touch the and the POS terminal. Payment can be initiated by waving the near the POS terminal in a similar way to contactless payment through debit/credit/prepaid cards.
What should be done if the SBI One Touch is lost / stolen?
In case of lost or theft, raise a complaint for blocking by visiting the nearest SBI Branch / through YONO / YONO Lite or call our contact centre. Please note that the Bank will not be responsible for any losses until the SBI One Touch is blocked.
Your browser does not support the video tag.
Last Updated On : Thursday, 18-12-2025