Product Features
Individuals in their own name can open PPF account using YONO App.
Deposit amount-
Minimum: Rs. 500/- per annum and subsequent deposits in multiples of Rs.50/-
Maximum: Rs.1,50,000/- per annum inclusive of the deposits made in his own account and in the account opened on behalf of the minor.
The deposit in the account may be made in the account in one lump sum or in instalments, during a year.
Original duration of the account is of fifteen years from the end of the financial year in which the account is opened. PPF account holder on the expiry of fifteen years from the end of the year in which the account was opened, may extend his account for a further block period of five years. There is no restriction on number of such extensions. The option of extension of account shall be available to the customer before expiry of one year from the maturity of the account.
Account can be discontinued any time but repayment of subscription along with interest will be done only after 15 years i.e. date of maturity of the PPF account.
After maturity, the customer is allowed withdrawal of the entire balance along with due interest up to the last day of the month preceding the month in which the account is closed.
A discontinued account may be revived during its maturity period on payment of a fee of fifty rupees for each year of default along with arrears of minimum deposit of five hundred rupees for each year of default.
The facility of loan or partial withdrawal is not allowed in any discontinued account.
PPF Account can be transferred to any branch of SBI for convenience of operations.
The rate of interest is determined by Central Govt. on quarterly basis, presently, 7.10% per annum (w.e.f. 01.04.2020-Compounded annually).
Interest is credited in account on 31st March every year (calculated on the minimum balance between the close of 5th day and end of the month).
Benefit available u/s 80C of the Income Tax Act. The interest credited in the PPF account is totally tax-free.
Other product features as applicable to Public Provident Fund Scheme,2019.
Prerequisites
The app version of YONO can be accessed through mobile (smartphones). The ‘YONO’ mobile application is available on Goggle Play Store and iOS Apple App Store.
Customer to login to YONO App through his/her credentials and Navigate to “My Investments section” >> “PPF Account.
Eligibility
Resident Indians above 18 years of age, existing to Bank (ETB) customers registered on YONO. Joint Accounts are not allowed.
Aadhaar and PAN is mandatory.
Customer must be KYC compliant with no existing PPF account.
How to open Account?
Download YONO App
Log in to YONO App and navigate to ‘My investments’ and apply for New PPF account by clicking ‘Open PPF account’.
Name and address details (non-editable) are prepopulated and are non-editable.
Select Home Branch/Other Branch to open PPF Account. By default CIF home branch will be shown, however, customer will have option to select other branch using GPS or entering location/branch code.
Fill in nominee details (Maximum 4 nominees allowed).
Option to put standing instruction. (recommended)
Review and confirm all the data entered and accept terms and conditions by entering OTP sent on registered mobile number in Bank records.
PPF account is generated and funding can be done immediately.
Scan the QR code to open your PPF account now
QR Code of YONO APP to be provided at the end
Frequently Asked Questions
Q1) Can minor accounts be opened through this process?
The process is available for customers who are major in age.
Q2) Can NRIs open PPF account?
No, only a resident citizen of India is eligible to open PPF account
Q3) Can joint accounts be opened through this process?
No, the process is available for singly operated accounts only.
Q4) Can account be opened 24*7?
Process will be available from 8 am to 8 pm only.
Q5) What are the prerequisites for opening account?
Customer should be resident Indian, KYC compliant and KYC not due for renewal. There should not be any existing PPF account of the customer. Aadhar and PAN is mandatory.
Q6) Is Email address and PAN mandatory to open this account?
email address is not mandatory for this account. PAN is mandatory to open this account.
Q7) What are the guidelines applicable to these accounts?
The product is as per Government Savings Promotion General Rules,2018. All the rules and regulations as applicable for the above rules will apply to these accounts also.
*
Customers may call on a Customer Care Number of SBI Contact Centre 1800 1234 (Toll free) or 1800 425 3800 (Toll free) or 1800112211 or 1800 2100 (toll free) or +91-80-26599990 (chargeable) regarding any information, feedback, query or complaint.
Download YONO SBI
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 03-07-2024