Purpose:
To provide timely and adequate credit to farmers to meet their production credit needs (Cultivation expenses) besides meeting contingency expenses and expenses related to ancillary activities through simplified procedure facilitating the borrowers for availing loans as and when they need.
Features:
Type of Facility:
Revolving cash credit account. Credit balance in the account, if any, will fetch interest at Savings bank rate.
Quantum of Loan:
Need Based finance considering cropping pattern, acreage and Scale of Finance (SOF) determined by DLTC (District Level Technical Committee)
Margin:
Nil
Moratorium:
NA
Repayment:
The repayment period as per the crop period (Short/ Long) and marketing period for the crop.
Security:
Primary:
Hypothecation of Crops grown / assets to be created out of Bank finance.
Collateral:
Equitable mortgage / registered mortgage of land / immovable property as applicable of the value of 100 % loan. However, collateral is waived for KCC limit up to Rs. 2.00 lakhs and up to Rs.3.00 lakhs, in case of tie up arrangement
Interest Subvention:
3% p.a. interest subvention as Prompt Repayment Incentive (PRI) up to Rs. 3.00 lakhs
Other
:
Tenure:
5 years, with 10% annual increase of limit every year, subject to annual review.
Rupay debit cards for all eligible KCC borrowers.
Insurance
:
a. Eligible crops may be covered under PRADHAN MANTRI FASAL BIMA YOJNA (PMFBY) on premium paymen.
b. Borrower should also opt for Personal Accident Insurance, Health Insurance (wherever applicable)
Eligibility:
All farmers-individuals/Joint borrowers who are owner cultivators.
Tenant farmers, Oral lessees and Share croppers, etc,.
SHGs or Joint Liability Groups of farmers including tenant farmers, share croppers, etc,.
Documents Required:
Application Form.
Two Passport Size Photographs.
Proof of landholding duly certified by the revenue authorities.
Cropping pattern (Crops grown) with acreage.
Security documents for loan limit above Rs.2.00 lakhs / Rs.3.00 lakhs, as applicable.
Any other document as per sanction.
Interest Rate:
Up to Rs. 3.00 lakhs- 7% p.a. subject to GoI providing interest subvention. For interest subvention, submission of Aadhar details to Bank is mandatory (wherever applicable).
Above Rs.3.00 lakhs and below ₹ 50.00 Lakhs- 3.25% above 1-Year MCLR.
₹ 50.00 lakhs and above- Based on Credit Risk Assessment (CRA) rating.
Processing fee:
KCC Limits up to Rs.3.00 lakhs: NIL
Limits more than Rs.3.00 lakhs to Rs. 50.00 lakhs: 0.65% of loan limit
Limits more than Rs. 50.00 lakhs: Based on CRA rating in the range of 0.50 % to 1.00% of loan limit.
It is subject to change from time to time.
YONO Review:
Hassle free KCC review on through YONO App or at YONO Branch portal. The salient features of process are:
Contact less & paperless journey for application through YONO App.
E2E process on YONO Branch portal.
Standardization of KCC Review process.
Minimum data entry by farmer and branch
1. What are the credit components covered under KCC?
To meet short term requirements for cultivation of crops
Post-harvest expenses
Consumption requirement of farmer household
Investment credit requirement for Agri and allied activities like farm machinery, etc. which is repayable within one year.
2. What is the minimum and maximum loan under KCC?
Minimum loan: No ceiling Maximum loan: No ceiling
It is need based considering cropping pattern, acreage and Scale of Finance (SOF)
For detailed and updated information, please contact our nearest Branch.
Application Form
Last Updated On : Thursday, 05-02-2026