1. What are the different channels for transferring funds using UPI mode of payment through SBI YONO Lite?
The different channels for transferring funds using UPI mode of payment through SBI YONO Lite are:
Transfer through Virtual Payment Address (VPA)
Account Number and IFSC
2. How can I generate a Virtual Payment Address?
Generation of VPA is currently not supported through SBI YONO Lite app
3. Does the customer need to register a beneficiary before transferring funds through SBI YONO Lite UPI feature?
The customer need not register the beneficiary in order to transfer funds through UPI in SBI YONO Lite App
4. Does the beneficiary also have to register for UPI for receiving funds?
While sending money to beneficiary’s Virtual ID, the beneficiary should mandatorily be registered with UPI but in case of payment through Account number and IFSC, the beneficiary need not be registered for UPI.
5. Is there a limit on the value of transactions when I am sending money using UPI?
Presently, there is a limit of Rs. 1,00,000/- per day through UPI.
6. What if my account is debited but the transaction does not go through?
UPI provides for real time reversals for technical declines and amount would be transferred back to the payer account immediately. In case if the amount is not reversed, you can raise dispute through SBI YONO Lite app by visiting UPI Transfer>>UPI payment history >> raise dispute against that particular transaction.
7. Can I put a stop payment request for funds transferred through UPI functionality of SBI YONO Lite App?
No, once the payment is initiated, it cannot be stopped.
8. Where do I register a complaint with reference to the SBI YONO Lite Pay transactions done through UPI?
You can raise grievance by going to ‘Payment History’ option and select particular transaction and ‘raise dispute’. You can also check status in “Dispute Status” module available under UPI functionality in SBI YONO Lite appहैं।
9.  How can I track my transaction status?
Login to SBI YONO Lite App
Go to UPI Transfer >> UPI Payment History
Select Date range
10. What are the charges levied on the customer?
Presently, no charges are levied. Any change in this matter will be communicated separately.
Last Updated On : Tuesday, 04-02-2025