Objective/ Purpose
To finance new commercial vehicles, Electric vehicles, Hybrid commercial vehicles, CNG vehicles, Ambulances and Caravan Vehicles (Specially built for the purpose of travel, leisure and accommodation).
Features
Target Group:
Transport Operators, Tour Operators, Travel Agencies, Business Enterprises, Contractors, Captive Users, Warehouse Owners, Logistics provider, Hospitality Sector, First Time Buyers with experience in related activities.
Facilities Available :
Term Loan
Quantum of Loan :
Minimum: Rs.10.00 lakhs.
Maximum: Rs.50.00 Lakhs.
Pricing :
Competitive pricing linked to EBR (Linked to Repo Rate and Currently EBR is Repo Rate + 2.65%)
Borrower's Margin / Contribution :
15% on on-road price
Repayment Period :
For Commercial Vehicle:
Maximum 84 months. Moratorium: Up to 6 months.
For Electric Vehicle :
Maximum 48 months. Moratorium: Up to 6 months. Repayment on EMI basis. Negotiated repayment can be done depending on cash accruals.
Processing Fee/ Upfront Fee :
0.50% of the loan amount + GST.
Other Charges:
5% p.a. over and above the existing rate of interest on overdue amount for the period of default
Collateral Security :
Loans will be covered under CGTMSE.
Guarantee fee to be borne by the borrower.
Special Feature :
Eligibility Criteria:
Minimum 2 years of experience in transport industry/ Hospitality Industry and other related business enterprise/ activities.
Satisfactory track record with existing banks/FIs.
Income Tax Assessee (personal & Business).
MSMEs should be registered in UDYAM portal and should have Udyam Registration Certificate.
Eligibility Criteria
Minimum 2 years of experience in transport industry/ Hospitality
Industry and other related business enterprise/ activities.
Satisfactory track record with existing banks/FIs.
Income Tax Assessee (personal & Business).
MSMEs should be registered in UDYAM portal and should have Udyam Registration Certificate.
First time users may also be considered as a special case.
Collateral Security
Nil
Loans will be covered under CGTMSE. Guarantee fee to be borne by the borrower.
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Thursday, 08-02-2024