Purpose :
To provide car loans as term loan in the name of SME units, for purchase of only new cars viz. passenger cars, jeeps, multi utility vehicles (MUVs) and sports utility vehicles (SUVs) etc. for use by its promoters / partners / directors / employees usage. The car can be of Petrol/Diesel/CNG/Hybrid/Electric Engine.
Financing for Demo Cars is not permitted under the product.
Features
Target Group :
The loan can be extended in the name of SME Units, both Existing to Bank (ETB) and New to Bank (NTB). Loans in individual names shall not qualify under SME Car Loan.
Facilities Available :
Term Loan
Quantum of loan :
Max. Loan amount-Rs 5.00 crores.
Capping of each car loan: NIL
Overall cap: Rs 5.00 Cr (Within the overall cap, any number of cars can be availed by the unit)
Pricing :
Attractive Interest rates based on CIC score of the Proprietor/Partner/Promoter Director and Tenor of the loan.
Borrower’s Margin / Contribution
Up to Rs. 25 lakh: 10% of the on-road price of the car
>Rs.25 lakh to Rs.5 Cr- 15% of the on-road price of the car
Repayment Period :
Maximum Repayment Period of 5 or 7 years through EMIs
Processing Fee/ Upfront Fee :
0.50% of the loan amount (subject to min. of Rs. 500 and max. of Rs. 10,000)
Other Charges
: As per Bank Guidelines which will be appraised to the borrower before sanction of loans.
Special Feature:
The loans can be extended to
Existing SME unit (ETB), having borrowing arrangement with us for last 12 months subject to account not being in SMA-1 or worse category during the last 12 months.
Existing Current Account (New to Credit) customers with minimum vintage of 12 months and don’t have borrowing arrangement with any other Bank.
New customers having current account with other Banks with 12 months vintage and or borrowing arrangements with them for the last 12 months.
Eligibility
All MSME/Non-MSME units, having borrowing arrangement with us, are eligible under the product, subject to account not being in SMA-1 or worse category during the last 12 months.
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Thursday, 09-01-2025