Defence Salary Package (DSP)
Defence personnel of the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Air Force, Assam Rifles, Rashtriya Rifles (RR) and GREF [Border Road Organisation (BRO)] can avail Salary Accounts under Defence Salary Package (DSP). Retired Personnel can also open / convert their accounts in DSP – Pension.

Available in three variants, namely Gold, Diamond and Platinum based on rank of personnel of the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Air Force, Assam Rifles, RR and GREF (Border Road Organisation). Personnel Below Officer Rank (PBOR) are categorised under Gold Variant; Officers are categorised under Diamond and Platinum variants.

DSP-Army

GOLD : JCOs & other Ranks
DIAMOND : Lieutenant, Captain, Major
PLATINUM: Lt. Colonel, Colonel, Brigadier
RHODIUM: Lt General, Major General, Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Defence Staff
DSP-Navy

GOLD : Sea II, Sea I, Leading Seaman, Petty Officer, Chief Petty Officer, Master Chief Petty Officer-II and Master Chief Petty Officer-I
DIAMOND: Sub Lieutenant, Lieutenant and Lieutenant Commander
PLATINUM: Commander, Captain, Commodore
RHODIUM: Vice Admiral, Rear Admiral, Chief of Naval Staff, Chief of Defence Staff
*DSP Accounts of Sailors joining Navy before they attain majority, will be opened without Insurance

DSP-Air Force

GOLD : Personnel Below Officer Rank
DIAMOND: Flying Officer, Flight Lieutenant, Squadron Leader
PLATINUM : Wing Commander, Group Captain, Air Commodore
RHODIUM:Air Marshal, Air Vice Marshal, Air Chief Marshal, Chief of Air Staff, Chief of Defence Staff
DSP-General Reserve Engineering Force (GREF)/Border Road Organisation (BRO)

GOLD: Group B (Non-Gazetted) & Group C Employees
Group A (Gazetted) Deputy Chief Medical Officer. Joint Director (Admin), Executive Engineer (Civil)NFSG, Executive Engineer (E&M) NFSG, Executive Engineer (Civil), Executive Engineer (EM), Senior Admin Officer, Medical Officer Grade I, Medical Officer Grade II, Asstt Director (official language), Administrative Officer, Assistant Executive Engineer (Civil), Assistant Executive engineer (E&M) Group B (Gazetted) Senior Private Secretary, Assistant Engineer (Civil), Assistant Engineer (E&M), Chief Draughtsman, Asst Adm Officer, Private Secretary
PLATINUM: Group A (Gazetted Superintending Engineer (Civil), Superintending Engineer (E&M), Director (Admin), Deputy Chief Medical Officer (SG)
RHODIUM: Group A (Gazetted Additional Director General Border Roads, Chief Engineer (Civil), Chief Engineer (E& M),
DSP-Assam Rifles

GOLD : Bugler, Rifleman and Mule Driver, Lance Naik, Nalband, Havaldar, Warrant Officer, Havaldar Major, Naib Subedar, Subedar, Subedar Major
DIAMOND: Deputy Commandant, Assistant Commandant (equivalent to Lt and Capt in Indian Army)
PLATINUM: Commandant, Second-In-Command (equivalent to Major, Lt Col and Col in Indian Army)
RHODIUM: Lt General, Major General and other equivalent ranks (Personnel at this level are being deputed from Indian Army and DSP Army would be offered to them).
DSP-Rashtriya Rifles

Personnel in Rashtriya Rifles are on deputation from Indian Army and hence covered under DSP Army. Accounts are classified as per Ranks in Indian Army.
DSP - Agniveer

Personnel recruited in Indian Army, Indian Airforce and Indian Navy with Distinctive Benefits under "Agnipath" Scheme of Government of India.
 

Benefits to Serving Personnel
Zero balance account and free unlimited number of transactions across all SBI ATMs in India.
Group Term Life Insurance (GTL) of ₹ 10 Lakh (Any kind of death is covered) (For Details and Date of coverage Table Enclosed)
Personal Accidental Insurance (Death)cover of Rs. 100 Lakhs to all ranks. (For Details and Date of coverage Table Enclosed)
Air Accidental Insurance (Death)cover of Rs. 150 Lakh to all ranks (For Details and Date of coverage Table Enclosed)
Personal Accidental (Permanent Total Disablement) cover up to Rs. 100 Lakhs to all ranks (For Details and Date of coverage Table Enclosed)
Personal Accidental (Permanent Partial Disablement) cover up to Rs. 100 Lakhs to all ranks. (For Details and Date of coverage Table Enclosed)
100% waiver of processing fee on SBI Personal Loan (Erstwhile Xpress Credit), and Home Loan (Actual TIR and Valuation charges, etc will be recovered, where applicable).
Up to 50% off on annual locker rental.
Auto-Sweep facility (optional) to create e-MODs (Multi Option Deposits)and earn higher interest.
Demat & Online Trading A/c facility available.
Free issuance of Drafts, Multi City Cheques, SMS Alerts, NEFT/RTGS.
Additional Rs. 10 Lakh for death in action against terrorist/ Naxalites/ foreign enemy.
SBI Rishtey (Family Savings Account): For family members of Salary Package Customer with differential benefits.
SBI Personal Loan (Erstwhile Xpress Credit loan) cover up to 10 Lakh for SBI Loan Account for death in action against Terrorist / Naxalites / Foreign enemy.
Note 1: Benefits under salary package are subject to classification of Savings Bank Account to respective Salary Package and Variant in banks system. All Customers Drawing Salary through SBI Accounts are required to apply along with proof of Salary and Proof of employment to their home branch for conversion of savings account to respective Salary Package/Variant ((Conversion Forms). Account holders are required to verify classification of their accounts under respective package/variant from the name of package / variant printed on first page of their bank passbook / statement.

 
Note 2: In case, monthly salary is not credited into the account for more than 3 consecutive months, the account will be converted to normal savings account and all the features offered under Salary Package will stand withdrawn. All the Charges shall be levied as applicable to normal Savings Bank Account.

Note 3: The Salary Package is being offered to the employees by the Bank as a comprehensive solution for the purpose of providing various banking services and associated features are not intended for mobilization of deposits from them.

Benefits to Pensioner Veterans
Zero balance account and free unlimited number of transactions across all SBI ATMs in India.
Personal Accidental Insurance (Death) cover of Rs. 50 Lakhs to all ranks (For Details and Date of coverage Table Enclosed)
100% waiver of processing fee on Pension Loans.
Up to 50% off on annual locker rent.
Auto-Sweep facility (optional) to create e-MODs (Multi Option Deposits) and earn higher interest.
Demat & Online Trading A/c facility available.
Free issuance of Drafts, Multi City Cheques, SMS Alerts. NEFT/RTGS.
Note 1: Benefits under Pension Account are subject to classification of Savings Bank Account to respective Pension Account and Variant in banks system. All Customers Drawing Pension through SBI Accounts are required to apply along with proof of Pension and PPO to their home branch for conversion of savings account to respective Pension Account/Variant (Conversion Forms). Account holders are required to verify classification of their accounts under respective package/variant from the name of package / variant printed on first page of their bank passbook / statement.

 
Note 2: In case, monthly pension is not credited into the account for more than 3 consecutive months, the account will be converted to normal savings account and all the features offered under Pension Package will stand withdrawn. All the Charges shall be levied as applicable to normal Savings Bank Account.

Note 3: The Salary Package is being offered to the employees by the Bank as a comprehensive solution for the purpose of providing various banking services and associated features are not intended for mobilization of deposits from them.

