Q1. What is CKYC?
CKYC (Central Know Your Customer) is a centralized database of KYC records of customers taking financial services from banks, insurance companies, non-banking financial companies, etc.
Q2. What is CKYC or KIN Number?
CKYC or KIN (KYC Identification Number) is a unique 14 digit Identifier generated for an individual on completing KYC formalities at the time of account opening / updation in any of the above-mentioned financial institutions.
Q3. How is CKYC beneficial to me?
Once your KYC details are registered with CKYC, you will receive a unique KIN number. You can quote this number for establishing new financial relationship/account opening with said financial institutions without having to submit your KYC documents again, provided that there is no change in your KYC document.
For more information, please watch the video in the link below &ndash;
https://www.ckycindia.in/ckyc/assets/images/CentralKYCRecordsRegistryCustomerAwarenessVideo.webm.
Q4. Which all entities can register customers for CKYC?
All financial institutions regulated by RBI, SEBI, IRDAI and PFRDA can register their customers under CKYC. Once you have opted for any financial product / service offered by these institutions, such as open a bank / credit card / demat account, buy an insurance policy or invest in mutual funds, etc., they will register your KYC with CKYC.
Q5. What is the process of completing CKYC?
When you opt for any financial product / service from any of the financial institutions regulated by RBI, SEBI, IRDAI or PFRDA, these institutions will register your KYC details with the CERSAI (Central Registry of Securitisation and Asset Reconstruction and Security Interest of India).
You will need to submit the following documents:
PAN Number
Identity and Address Proof
Passport
Driving License,
Proof of possession of Aadhaar number,
Voter's Identity Card issued by Election Commission of India,
Job card issued by NREGA duly signed by an officer of the state government,
Letter issued by the National Population Register containing details of name and address
One recent passport size photograph
Upon successful registration, you will be provided with a unique KIN. Once the KIN is generated / updated, an SMS / E-mail will be sent by CERSAI to your Registered Mobile Number / E-mail ID.
Q6. How do I check my CKYC number?
You can check your CKYC number and status online by visiting the SBI Card Website / Mobile App.
Login to your SBI Card Online Account and follow the steps below:
Go to My Profile and click on &lsquo;CKYC Details.&rsquo; (A masked &lsquo;CKYC Number&rsquo; will be visible)
Click on &lsquo;View Number&rsquo; (An OTP will be sent on Registered Mobile Number)
Enter the OTP to view unmasked CKYC number.
Q7. Why did I get a CKYC download notification?
You receive a CKYC download notification when an institution downloads your KYC record from CKYCR using your KYC Identification Number. It may do so for the purpose of
KYC fulfilment when you apply for an SBI Credit Card
Updating your existing records in CKYCR basis the latest KYC document submitted by you at the time of credit card application, periodic KYC renewal or residence address change.
As per the recent amendments to &lsquo;Prevention of Money Laundering Act&rsquo; on 19 July 2024 and &lsquo;RBI Master Direction on Know You Customer&rsquo; on 6 November 2024, any change in demographic information, such as name or residence address, initiated by a customer with his / her respective bank, insurance company, non-banking financial company, etc. is submitted to CKYCR post updation.
Thereafter, CKYCR sends an electronic intimation regarding updation of KYC records to all other reporting entities with whom the said customer has a relationship. Upon receiving this information, the reporting entities download / retrieve the updated KYC records from CKYCR and update the customer information / KYC record maintained by them.
Q8. What is CKYC Update Intimation?
As per the recent amendments to &lsquo;Prevention of Money Laundering Act&rsquo; on 19 July 2024 and &lsquo;RBI Master Direction on Know You Customer&rsquo; on 6 November 2024, any change in demographic information, such as name or residence address, initiated by a customer with his / her respective bank, insurance company, non-banking financial company, etc. is submitted to CKYCR post updation.
Thereafter, CKYCR sends an electronic intimation regarding updation of KYC records to all other reporting entities with whom the said customer has a relationship. Upon receiving this information, the reporting entities download / retrieve the updated KYC records from CKYCR and update the customer information / KYC record maintained by them.
Q9. Where can I view my details available on CKYC?
To view your details in CKYC records, please visit https://www.ckycindia.in