FAQs on Udyam Registration Certificate (URC) Requirement 
 
Question Answer 
1. How to sign up for Udyam Registration 
Certificate (URC)? 
Follow the steps listed below to register for URC:  
− Visit the official portal for URC registration - Click here  
− Choose your type – if new/already with a UAM 
− Complete Aadhar and PAN verification  
− Fill the Registration Form 
− Click on submit and Complete Registration 
− The above process takes about 20-25 mins for completion  
2. Is MSME tagging mandatory for NRP cases? 
Yes, MSME Tagging is mandatory for NRP cases, subject to fulfillment of other 
conditions. 
3. If a customer has applied for URC, can they 
proceed with the loan application? 
Yes, if an applicant has applied for URC and if due to portal down time, the 
registration has not been completed, approval for login must be sought as per 
the deviation grid mentioned in the process note. 
4. Is MSME Tagging mandatory for SPL cases? No 
5. Can URC be provided as proof of Business 
Continuity? 
No. URC cannot be considered as proof of Business Continuity. The End-User 
certificate must be evaluated and approved by the Credit team. 
6. Is URC tagging mandatory for Top-up cases 
where the parent loan is Home Loan (HL)? 
No, URC tagging is not mandatory for HL Top-up cases.  
7. If the applicant is salaried but the co
applicant is self-employed, is URC required? 
Yes, applicable for financial applicant and financial co-applicant. 
8. If both, applicant and co-applicant are self
employed, whose URC should be collected? 
URC must be collected from both applicants. 
9. Is URC required for Zero-Day LAP (Loan 
Against Property)? 
No, URC is not mandatory for Zero-Day LAP. 
10. Is URC required for Micro LAP and FI cases 
(e.g., street vendors etc)? 
No, URC tagging is not mandatory for cases with login value up to 10 lakhs, 
however if the sanction value is above 10 lakhs URC is mandatory. For 
exceptions, approval has to be sought on a case-to-case basis as per the 
deviation grid mentioned in the process note. 
11. If a firm is part of the loan structure, is URC 
required? 
Yes, URC is required. 
12. Do Chartered Accountancy (CA) practices fall 
under this requirement? 
Yes, CA practices are included, provided other conditions for mandatory MSME 
tagging are met. 
13. Is URC required in P+C cases? 
No. URC tagging is not mandatory for P+C cases. 
14. If deviation approval has been granted at 
login, is URC mandatory for disbursement? 
15. Is MSME tagging mandatory for customers 
with only rental income?  
Yes, URC must be furnished before disbursement, subject to meeting all the 
MSME conditions. 
No. MSME/URC tagging is not mandatory for customers with only rental income. ----------------------------------------- 
FAQs on Udyam Registration Certificate (URC) – Client Related 
Question 
Answer 
1. 
What is URC? 
The Udyam Registration Certificate is an official document issued by the 
Government of India to Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) upon 
successful registration, providing them with a unique identity and access to 
various government benefits.  
URC is useful because it empowers MSMEs by providing access to various 
2. 
What are the benefits of URC? 
3. List of documents required to apply for URC 
4. Is there any registration fee to get a URC? 
5. What is the validity of URC? 
government schemes and establishes credibility of the business. 
One can apply for URC using Aadhaar Number & PAN, followed by a registration 
form. 
Link for sample registration form is here 
No, registering for URC is completely free of cost 
URC is valid for the entire lifetime of the organization 