3. Opening of account.-(1) The account may be opened by one of the guardian in the name of a girl child, who has not attained the age of ten years as on the date of opening of the account.

(2) Every account holder shall have a single account under this Scheme.

(3) The application in Form-1 for opening an account shall be accompanied by birth certificate of the girl child in whose name the account is to be opened, along with required documents of guardian.

(4) An account under this Scheme may be opened for a maximum of two girl children in one family:

Provided that more than two accounts may be opened in a family if such children are born in the first or in the second order of birth or in both, on submission of an affidavit by the guardian supported with birth certificates of the twins/triplets regarding the birth of such multiple girl children in the first two orders of birth in a family:

Provided further that the above proviso shall not apply to girl child of the second order of birth, if the first order of birth in the family results in two or more surviving girl children.

4.Deposits.-(1) The account may be opened with a minimum initial deposit of two hundred and fifty rupees and in multiples of fifty rupees thereafter and subsequent deposits shall be in multiples of fifty rupees subject to the condition that a minimum of two hundred and fifty rupees shall be made as deposit in a financial year in one account.

(2) The total amount deposited in an account shall not exceed one lakh fifty thousand rupees in a financial year:

Provided that the deposit in excess of one lakh fifty thousand rupees in any financial year, if accepted due to any accounting error, shall not be eligible for any interest and be returned immediately to the depositor.

(3) Deposits may be made in the account till the completion of a period of fifteen years from the date of opening of the account.

(4) An account in which minimum amount as specified in sub-paragraph (1) has not been deposited shall be considered as an account under default:

Provided that an account under default may be regularised any time till completion of a period of fifteen years from the date of opening of account on payment of a penalty of fifty rupees for each year of default along with the minimum annual deposit in respect of the defaulted years.

(5) In case of an account under default, if not regularised within the time specified under sub-paragraph (4), then the whole deposit, including the deposits made prior to the date of default, shall be eligible for interest at the rate applicable to the Scheme till closure of the account.

5. Interest on deposit.-(1) The deposit made in the account between 12th December, 2019 to 31st March, 2020 (both days inclusive) and the balances at the credit of the account shall earn interest at the rate of 8.4 per cent per annum.

(1A) The deposit made in the account on or after the 1st day of April, 2020 and the balances at the credit of the account shall earn interest at the rate of 7.6 per cent. per annum.

Sub paragraph 5(1) amended and sub paragraph 5(1A) inserted vide G.S.R. No. 288 (E) dated 05/05/2020

(2) The interest shall be calculated for the calendar month on the lowest balance in the account between the close of the fifth day and the end of the month. The interest shall be credited to the account at the end of each financial year and any amount of interest in fraction of a rupee shall be rounded off to the nearest rupee and for this purpose any amount of fifty paisa or more shall be treated as one rupee and any amount less than fifty paisa shall be ignored.

(3) Interest shall be credited at the end of the financial year irrespective of the change of the account office due to transfer of the account during the financial year.

6. Operation of account.-(1) The account shall be operated by the guardian till the account holder attains the age of eighteen years. The account shall be operated by the account holder herself after attaining age of eighteen years by submitting necessary documents.

7. Premature closure of account.-(1) In the event of death of the account holder, the account shall be closed immediately on application in Form-2, on production of death certificate issued by the competent authority and the balance at the credit of the account and interest due thereon till the date of death shall be paid to the guardian.

(2) Interest for the period between the date of death of the account holder and date of closure of the account shall be paid at the rate applicable on Post Office Savings Account for the balance held in the account.

(3) Where the accounts office is satisfied that in case of extreme compassionate grounds such as medical support in life-threatening diseases of the account holder or death of the guardian that the operation or continuation of the account is causing undue hardship to the account holder, it may, after complete documentation establishing the grounds for such closure, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, allow premature closure of the account. Outstanding balance in the account with interest due as applicable to the Scheme shall be paid to the account holder or guardian, as the case may be:

Provided that no premature closure of an account under this sub-paragraph shall be made before completion of five years from the date of opening of the account.

8. Withdrawal.-(1) On an application in Form-3, withdrawal of upto a maximum of fifty per cent. of the amount in the account at the end of the financial year preceding the year of application for withdrawal, shall be allowed for the purpose of education of the account holder:

Provided that such withdrawal shall be allowed after the account holder attains the age of eighteen years or has passed tenth standard, whichever is earlier.

(2) The application for withdrawal under sub-paragraph (1) shall be accompanied by documentary proof in the form of a confirmed offer of admission of the account holder in an educational institution or a fee-slip from such institution indicating such financial requirement.

(3) The withdrawal under sub-paragraph (1) may be made in one lump sum or in instalments, not exceeding one per year, for a maximum of five years, subject to the ceiling specified in sub-paragraph (1):

Provided that the amount of withdrawal shall be restricted to the actual requirement on account of fee and other charges required at the time of admission as shown in the offer of admission or the relevant fee-slip issued by the educational institution.

9. Closure on maturity.-(1) The account shall mature on completion of a period of twenty-one years from the date of its opening.

(2) The closure of the account may also be permitted before completion of twenty-one years if the account holder on an application makes a request for such closure for the reason of intended marriage of the account holder on furnishing of a declaration duly signed on non-judicial stamp paper attested by the notary supported with proof of age confirming that the applicant will not be less than eighteen years of age on the date of marriage:

Provided that no such closure shall be allowed before one month from the date of the intended marriage or after three months from the date of marriage.

(3) On an application in Form-4 by the account holder, the balance outstanding along with interest as applicable under paragraph 5 shall be payable to the account holder.

10. Application of General Rules.- Provisions of the General Rules shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the matters for which no provisions have been made in this Scheme.

11. Power to relax.-Where the Central Government is satisfied that the operation of any of the provisions of this Scheme causes undue hardship to the account holder, it may, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, relax the requirement of that provision or provisions in respect of such account holder, in a manner not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act.

Who is eligible for a Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Account?
Guardians can open an account on behalf of their girl child anytime between when she is born and before she reaches the age of 10.

How many accounts can be created under SSY?
Only one SSY account is permitted for a girl child. The number of accounts guardians can create is restricted to two for each of their girl children. Exceptions are only in case of twins or triplets.

What is the minimum amount required to open an SSY account?
Individuals can open an account with as low as Rs. 250. They also have to invest a minimum of Rs. 250 to keep the account active.

What happens when I do not make any deposits?
An SSY account is rendered inactive if you don’t make any deposits. However, you can revive your account by paying a penalty charge of Rs. 50.

What is the maximum amount that I can deposit in a year?
The maximum amount that you can deposit per year in a Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account is Rs. 1.5 Lakh. 

What is the maturity period of an SSY account?
The maturity period of an SSY account is 21 years. However, you only have to make deposits for 14 years. The deposited corpus will earn interest between the 14th and 21st year. 

Note that an SSY account will be terminated once a girl reaches 21 years of age or gets married, whichever is earlier.

Does a Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account provide income tax benefits?
Yes. SSY accounts provide income tax benefit of up to Rs. 1.5 Lakh under Section 80C.

Can an accountholder prematurely withdraw from an SSY account?
Yes. An account holder (the girl) will be able to withdraw from her account once she reaches 18 years of age. The account holder can only withdraw 50% of the accumulated amount once after she reaches this specified age only for the purpose of higher education.

Can an SSY account be closed before maturity?
Yes. A Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account can be closed in the event of the accountholder’s death or for the treatment of life-threatening diseases, the sanction of which needs to be authorised by the Central Government

Interest payable, Rates, Periodicity etc.	Minimum Amount for opening of account and maximum balance that can be retained
8.2% per annum	Minimum INR. 250/- and Maximum INR. 1,50,000/- in a financial year. Subsequent deposit in multiple of INR 50/-. Deposits can be made in lump-sum. No limit on the number of deposits either in a month or in a Financial year.

Eligibility
Individual to be resident citizen of India
Account may be opened by one of the guardians in the name of girl, who has not attained the age of ten years as on the date of opening of the account
Account may be opened for maximum of two girl children in a family.
Provided that more than two accounts may be opened in a family if such children are born in the first or in the second order of birth or in both, on submission of an affidavit by the guardian supported with birth certificates of the twins/triplets regarding the birth of such multiple girl children in the first two orders of birth in a family
Provided further that the above proviso shall not apply to girl child of the second order of birth, if the first order of birth in the family results in two or more surviving girl children.
The guardian shall operate the account till the account holder attains the age of 18 years. Thereafter, the account holder shall operate it upon submitting the required documents
Every account holder shall have a single account under this Scheme
The account shall be operated by the guardian till the account holder attains the age of eighteen years. The account shall be operated by the account holder herself after attaining age of eighteen years by submitting necessary documents.

Note:Application for account opening should be accompanied by Birth certificate the girl child and required documents of guardian. (Please refer Para 2 (1) (d))

Account may be opened with minimum initial deposit Rs. 250.
Minimum deposit in a financial year is Rs. 250 and maximum deposit may be made up to Rs. 1.5 lakh (in multiple of Rs.50) in a Financial Year in lump-sum or in multiple instalments
Deposits may be made till the completion of a period of fifteen years from the date of opening of the account.
If minimum deposit Rs. 250 is not deposited in an account in a Financial Year (FY), the account shall be treated as defaulted account.
Provided that an account under default may be regularised any time till completion of a period of fifteen years from the date of opening of account on payment of a penalty of fifty rupees for each year of default along with the minimum annual deposit in respect of the defaulted years.
Deposits qualify for deduction under section 80C of Income Tax Act

Note: Deposits in the account may be made by Cash/Cheque at Post Office Counter or through online mode by fund transfer through NEFT/RTGS facility or India Post Payment Bank App

Withdrawal, up to 50% of balance available at the end of the financial year preceding the year of application for withdrawal, may be taken from account for the purpose of education, provided that such withdrawal shall be allowed after the account holder attains the age of eighteen years or has passed tenth standard, whichever is earlier
Withdrawal may be made in one lump sum or in instalments, not exceeding one per year, for a maximum of five years, provided that the amount of withdrawal shall be restricted to the actual requirement on account of fee and other charges required at the time of admission as shown in the offer of admission or the relevant fee-slip issued by the educational institution.

The account will earn on the prescribed rate notified by Ministry of Finance at the end of financial year from time to time.
The interest shall be calculated for the calendar month on the lowest balance in the account between the close of the fifth day and the end of the month.
Interest shall be credited to the account at the end of each financial year
Interest earned is tax free under Income Tax Act.

Premature Closure
Please see Para No.7
In the event of death of the account holder, the account shall be closed immediately on application in Form-2, on production of death certificate issued by the competent authority and the balance at the credit of the account and interest due thereon till the date of death shall be paid to the guardian.
Interest for the period between the date of death of the account holder and date of closure of the account shall be paid at the rate applicable on Post Office Savings Account for the balance held in the account.
Account may be prematurely closed only after 5 years of account opening on extreme compassionate grounds namely,
(i) medical support in life-threatening diseases of the account holder
(ii) Death of the guardian by whom account operated or
(iii) Continuation of the account is causing undue hardship to the account holder

The account shall mature on completion of a period of 21 years from the date of its opening
The closure of the account may also be permitted before completion of 21 years if the account holder makes a request for the reason of intended marriage of the account holder on furnishing of a declaration duly signed on non-judicial stamp paper attested by the notary supported with proof of age confirming that the applicant will not be less than 18 years of age on the date of marriage:
Provided that no such closure shall be allowed before one month from the date of the intended marriage or after three months from the date of marriage

SSY vs ELSS - Which is Better for Girl Child Education Planning?
It is important to compare Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana with ELSS for parents considering investment options for higher education fund. 

Basis	Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana (SSY)	ELSS Mutual Funds
Returns	8.2% p.a. (government-fixed)	Market-linked (historically 12%–15%)
Risk Level	Very Low	Moderate to High
Lock-in Period	21 years	3 years
Tax Benefit	Section 80C + tax-free maturity	Section 80C deduction available
Tax on Returns	Fully tax-free	LTCG tax applicable above exemption limit
Liquidity	Partial withdrawal after age 18	Redemption allowed after 3 years
Capital Safety	Government-backed	Subject to market fluctuations
Best For	Guaranteed education or marriage corpus	Long-term wealth creation
Ideal Investor	Conservative parents	Parents comfortable with equity risk

1. When SSY Makes More Sense
You want a guaranteed and safe education corpus.
You prefer tax-free maturity benefits.
You do not want market volatility risk.
Your investment goal is specifically for a girl child.
2. When ELSS May Be Better
You have a long investment horizon and higher risk appetite.
You want potentially inflation-beating returns.
You are comfortable with short-term market volatility.
You want flexibility after the 3-year lock-in.
A stable and balanced investment strategy helps in capital safety and wealth creation for future education expenses. 

Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana Online Payment
You have to download the IPPB app on your smartphone to make online payments towards your SSY account. Through this app, you can set standing instructions so that a specified amount will be transferred online to your SSY account. Here is the step-by-step procedure:

Transfer money from your bank account to the IPPB account.
On the IPPB app, go to DOP Products / Services tab and choose the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account.
Enter your SSY account number and the customer ID.
Choose the amount you would like to pay and the installment duration.
IPPB will notify you of the success of setting up the payment routine.
Each time the app makes the money transfer, you will be notified of the same.

How to Transfer a Sukanya Samriddhi Account from the Post Office to a Bank?
To transfer the SSY account from a post office to a bank, follow these instructions:

Visit the PO branch where the account is held. The girl child need not visit the PO branch as the guardian can complete the process.
Inform the PO executive about your intent to transfer the SSY account.
Submit the duly filled account transfer form and KYC documents. The executive will verify the details and transfer the account on your request.
Now, visit the bank branch where you would like to maintain the SSY account.
Submit the self-attested KYC documents and any other paperwork provided to you by the PO executive while requesting to maintain the account with them.
Once the bank executive processes your request, a new passbook will be provided.
The balance in the SSY can be transferred anywhere in India – from or to post offices, from or to banks, and between post offices and banks free of cost. This can be done upon furnishing proof of a change of residence of either the guardian or the girl child. Under any other circumstance, such a transfer can be made by paying a fee of Rs 100.


s the maturity amount on withdrawal from the SSY account taxable?

No, the interest and maturity amount is exempt under Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana.

How to open Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account online?

As of now, you cannot open SSY account via online mode.

Who is the Guardian in Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme?

A Guardian in relation to a Minor means:

Either of the parents.
A Legal Guardian appointed by a court.
What is the maturity amount of SSY for Rs.1.5 lakh per year?

Investing Rs. 1.5 lakh per year in the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana can generate an estimated maturity amount of around Rs. 69 to 70 lakh after 21 years, depending on applicable interest rates.

Can I open SSY account online?

Yes, SSY account can be opened online through post office or authorised banks. 

What is the age limit for SSY?

SSY account can be opened for girl child below 10 years of age. 

Can I open SSY for adopted daughter?

Yes, SSY account can be opened for adopted daughter by their legal guardian. 

What happens to SSY if girl becomes NRI?

If the girl child becomes an NRI, then SSY account must be permanently closed and SSY is discontinued. 

Can I open 2 SSY accounts for 2 daughters?

Yes, one family can open a maximum of 2 SSY accounts. 

What happens if I miss SSY deposit in a year?

If you miss the minimum yearly deposit in the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, the account becomes inactive and can be revived by paying the minimum amount along with a penalty.

Can I withdraw SSY before maturity?

Yes, partial withdrawal from the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana is allowed after the girl turns 18 for higher education or marriage purposes, subject to conditions.

Is SSY maturity amount taxable?

No, the maturity amount of the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana is completely tax-free under the EEE (Exempt-Exempt-Exempt) tax benefit category.

SSY vs PPF - which is better for girl child?

Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana is generally better for a girl child due to its higher interest rate and dedicated savings benefits, while PPF offers more flexibility and liquidity.