Purpose
Enhance the competitiveness of existing individual micro-enterprises in the unorganized segment of the food processing industry and promote formalization of the sector.
Support Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs), Self Help Groups (SHGs) and Producers Cooperatives along their entire value chain.
Objectives
Increased access to credit by existing micro food processing entrepreneurs, FPOs, Self Help Groups and Co-operatives.
Integration with organized supply chain by strengthening branding & marketing.
Support for transition of existing 2,00,000 enterprises into formal framework.
Increased access to common services like common processing facility, laboratories, storage, packaging, marketing and incubation services.
Strengthening of institutions, research and training in the food processing sector and
lncreased access for the enterprises, to professional and technical support.
Features
Type of Facility:
Term loan
Margin:
Minimum of 10% of the project cost.
Quantum of Loan:
Minimum loan: No ceiling
Maximum loan: No ceiling
Repayment:
Max. 10 years including maximum moratorium of 6-24 months.
Security:
Primary Security
: Hypothecation of assets created out of Bank finance including mortgage of land and building wherever applicable.
Collateral Security
:
Loan Amount up to Rs. 2.00 Lakhs:
NIL.
Loan Amount Above Rs. 2.00 Lakhs:
For loans up to Rs. 10.00 lakhs
:
NIL.
To be covered under PM MUDRA Yojana.
For SHGs under Day-NRLM
:
Loan limit up to Rs. 10.00 lakhs:
NIL.
Loan limit above Rs. 10.00 lakhs up to Rs. 20.00 lakhs: To be covered under CGFMU coverage.
FPOs & FPCs
Credit Guarantee Scheme under NABSanrakshan:
Borrower/ Unit registered as MSME unit
:
For Loan accounts covered under CGTMSE up to loan limit of Rs. 10.00 Cr:
NIL.
Collateral Security Type which may be accepted:
Mortgage of SARFAESI complaint immovable property for value not less than 30% belonging to the unit (promoter/ partner/ director) or their near relatives, near relatives will cover Father, Mother, Spouse, Son, Daughter, real Brother & real Sister
Interest rate: -
For Eligible MSME Entities:
Loan up to Rs. 2 Cr:
EBLR (External Benchmark based Lending Rate) +200 bps.
Loan above Rs. 2 Cr:
As per Bank’s extant guidelines.
For Other Categories: FPOs/ SHGs/ Producer Cooperatives:
Loan up to Rs. 50 lakhs:
EBLR +360 bps
Loan above Rs.50 lakhs:
As per Bank’s extant guidelines.
Upfront fee :
As per Bank’s extant guidelines, are subject to revision by bank from to time.
Subsidy/ Grant
Individual Micro Enterprises:
Capital Subsidy @35% of the eligible project cost with a maximum ceiling of 10.00 lakh per unit.
FPOs/ SHGs/ Co-operatives:
@35% of eligible project cost.
Common Infrastructure Development:
@35 % of eligible project cost.
Credit Guarantee :
For MSME: -
CGTMSE for collateral free loan up to Rs.5 Cr.
Other categories:
For loans under MUDRA credit guarantee of CGFMU.
Portal :
https://pmfme.mofpi.gov.in
FAQs :
For more details, please visit nearest SBI Branch.
Eligible Entities
Individual entrepreneurs/ Proprietorship Firms/ Partnership Firms/ Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs)/ NGOs/ Cooperatives/ SHGs/ Pvt. Ltd. Companies, who have established or propose to establish micro food processing unit
Document Required
Application Form
Two Passport Size Photographs.
ID proof such as Driving License/ Aadhar Card/ Voter Identity Card/ Passport.
Address Proof such as voter ID card, Driving License, Aadhar Card.
Detailed Project Report (DPR)
Any other document as per sanction.
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 23-07-2025