SBI'S LEADING ROLE IN RURAL SELF EMPLOYMENT TRAINING INSTITUTES (RSETIs)
Rural Self Employment Training Institutes (RSETIs) established and managed by Banks are operating with common objectives of identifying, training, motivating & facilitating unemployed youth to take up self-employment. This model has been considered as an eﬀective model for creation of sustainable livelihoods through Self Employment. RSETIs are conducting 70 NSQF (National Skills Qualifications Framework) aligned courses and 9 General EDP (Entrepreneurship development Programme). These courses are classified under Product, Process, Agriculture & General EDP.
SBI is managing 157 RSETIs in 26 States and 3 UTs out of 614 functional RSETIs in the country. SBI RSETIs are providing training to more than one lakh rural poor youth every year. Since inception, SBI RSETIs have trained
13.11 lakh candidates through 48,112 training programmes
. Out of the same
9.77 lakh
candidates have been
settled
in their own venture and earning gainful income for their livelihood till 31.03.2025. Extended Credit Facilities to
5.25 Lakhs
RSETI Trained Candidates.
As per the directives of MoRD, all the RSETIs in the country are graded every year as on 31st March based on the performance of the RSETIs during the financial year. All 152 RSETIs managed by SBI have achieved an outstanding (AA) grade consecutively for the past Three years, reflecting their consistent performance. In 2018-19, SBI has been adjudged as the Best Performing Bank in implementation of RSETIs in the Country.
Aspiring rural youth seeking self-employment can enrol for any of 70 skill development programmes/EDP offered by these RSETIs. These training programmes are provided free of cost including free fooding and lodging arrangements for candidates. These training Candidates can contact the RSETIs or nearby branches of SBI for availing the training facilities in RSETIs. Upon successful completion, RSETIs offer handholding support for establishing enterprises and assist in seeking financial assistance from banks/financial institutions.
SBI-managed RSETIs stand as transformative hubs, empowering rural youth with skills, knowledge, and confidence to embark on entrepreneurial journeys. These institutes not only contribute to individual prosperity but also play a pivotal role in the economic development of the regions they serve.
Last Updated On : Friday, 22-08-2025