Financing the business entities engaged in Agri Allied and Related activities.
Features
Type of Facility
: Cash Credit (CC), Term Loan (TL), Bank Guarantee (BG) and Letter of Credit (LC)
Additional Facilities for Agri Exporters
:
Pre-shipment Export Credit/ Packing Credit: RPC/ Pre-shipment Credit in Foreign Currency – PCFC),
Post-shipment Export Credit: both in Foreign Currency (FCY) and Indian Rupees.
Bill Discounting (BD)
Margin: Term Loans:
10% to 20% depending on the project cost and quantum of loan
Working capital Cash Credit:
Stocks: 20%; Book debts/Receivables: 40%
In case of a borrower having a corporate tie-up, Margin for Working capital Cash Credit:
Stocks: 10%; Book debts/Receivables: 20%
Quantum of Loan
Minimum loan: Rs. 1,00,000
Maximum loan up to Rs.100 Crores
Interest Rate
: Attractive Interest rate starting from EBLR
Repayment: For Term Loan
: - Maximum 10 years (including moratorium of maximum 24 months.)
Repayment Frequency
: Negotiated Repayment
For Cash Credit
: - Tenure: 1 year
Repayable on demand
To be renewed annually
Eligibility
FPOs
must be a legal entity registered with any of the following:
The State Cooperative Societies Act of respective state
Mutually aided society act of respective state.
Multi State Cooperative Society Act 2002.
The FPCs registered under Companies Act 1956/2013.
Interest Subvention
No interest subvention is applicable under this product
Security
Primary
: Hypothecation of plant, machinery, stocks, receivables, etc. and other movable assets created out of Bank’s finance. Present and Future.
Collateral Security: NIL
up to Rs. 10 Crores where credit Guarantee Cover is availed.
Without Credit Guarantee Cover:
NIL for Loans up to 1.60 lakhs.
For Loans above Rs 1.60 lakhs: Mortgage of SARFAESI Compliant property having market value not less than 40% of the limit sanctioned
Insurance
Assets, created out of Bank’s finance must be comprehensively insured till the loan is repaid in full
FAQs
For more details, please visit nearest SBI Branch.
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 11-02-2026