Purpose
: To provide adequate (total requirement for end-to-end farming) and timely cash credit facility to Corporate farmers, Companies of farmers, Agri. firms and Large farmers or other farmers using Scientific and Progressive methods of farming.
Features:
Type of Facility:
Agriculture cash credit
Quantum of Loan
Minimum Loan: ₹ 5.00 lakhs
Maximum Loan: ₹ 50.00 Crores.
The quantum of loan will be based on realistic cost of end-to-end farming for any crop.
Repayment
: The repayment period will be fixed as per the anticipated harvesting and marketing period for the Crops for which the loan has been granted.
Security
:
Primary
: Hypothecation of crops grown/assets to be created out of bank finance.
Collateral
: Collateral security in the form of mortgage of immovable property/ Agriculture land and/or SARFAESI compliant security and/or liquid securities like unencumbered NSC (Face value) or Term Deposit (Face value) of Bank or Gold or any other acceptable liquid security.
Collateral Security Coverage should be as follows:
1)
For MPL (Max. Permissible Limit) below ₹50.00 lakhs
: At least 125% of loan amount (MPL) including min. 25% in the form of SARFAESI compliant    security and/or liquid securities (acceptable to the Bank).
Or
At least 200% of loan amount (MPL), in case min. 25% SARFAESI compliant/Liquid Security is not available. i.e., LTV (Max.) 50%.
2)
For MPL (Max. Permissible Limit) of ₹ 50.00 lakhs and above
: At least 125% of loan amount (MPL) including min. 25% in the form of SARFAESI compliant security and/or liquid securities (acceptable to the Bank).
Eligibility Criteria:
Farmers engaged in progressive or Scientific farming.
Minimum land holding
: At least having 4 acres of land holding
Or
farmer is engaged in scientific methods of farming.
Credit score
: 650 and above. Customers with no credit history are also eligible.
Age Criteria
: Min. 18 years, No Max. (Above 60 yrs., Co-borrower is must).
For Corporates
: Must be earning profit for 2 years as per audited/actual/ projected balance sheet (based on the year of incorporation).
Documents Required:
Loan application
Land ownership proof/ Lease document in case of lease cultivators.
Document for Cropping pattern (Crops grown) with acreage.
Any other document as per sanction.
Interest Rate:
Below ₹ 50.00 Lakhs- 1.80% above 1-Year MCLR
₹ 50.00 lakhs and above- Based on Credit Risk Assessment.
For detailed and updated information, please contact our nearest Branch.
Last Updated On : Thursday, 05-02-2026