Asset Backed Agri Loan
Purpose
: To provide hassle-free finance to farmers for:
Traditional and modern/progressive farm activities.
Agri-related and Allied Agri activities, including emerging and High-Tech Agri activities.
Meeting Investment Credit needs such as farmland development, fencing of the farmland, Farm mechanization, infrastructure activities.
Features:
Type of Facility
:
Agricultural Term Loan
Margin
:
Minimum 15% of the project cost
Quantum of Loan :
Minimum loan: Rs. 3,00,001
Maximum loan upto Rs.50 lakhs
Interest Rate
: One Year MCLR + 2.00% p.a.
Repayment
: Repayable in maximum 72 months including moratorium period.
Eligibility:
Individual farmers, Proprietary and Partnership Concerns, Corporate Farmers directly engaged in Agriculture, Allied and Ancillary activities.
Interest Subvention
No interest subvention is applicable under this product
Security:
Primary Security
: Hypothecation of assets created out of bank loan.
Collateral Security
: SARFAESI compliant immovable property in the form of Residential/Commercial land and/or building
The property belonging to the unit, its proprietor/partners/directors or their near relatives is eligible.
No second Charge or Pari-Passu charge will be extended to any other Bank or FI (exclusive charge of our Bank).
Property mortgaged needs to be within a radius of 25 km from the Branch wherein the loan is availed. (Controlling Authority may decide to go beyond 25 Km on a case-to-case basis. The reasons to be mentioned in the appraisal note).
Property that are not eligible under the product are
Property in the name of Minor
Industrial property both Leasehold & freehold
Leasehold property
Properties covered under social infrastructure such as schools/colleges, hospitals, orphanage/old age homes etc.
SEZ property
Property under Power of Attorney
Property should be SARFAESI Act compliant. CERSAI verification registration shall also be made on the proposed collateral security.
Insurance
The assets purchased out of Bank finance and identified as insurable, should be insured Comprehensively.
The building obtained as Collateral shall be insured.
FAQs
For more details, please visit nearest SBI Branch.
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 25-06-2025