SVAYAM SIDDHA SCHEME
In alignment with the Govt. of India’s “
Lakhpati Didi
” program, our Bank had launched a special initiative named '
Svayam Siddha
' to
create women entrepreneurs
from the
successful SHGs (NRLM)
of the Bank by easing out the pain points and simplifying the credit process
Target Group
Individual Members of matured SHG (The SHGs should be Credit Linked with our Bank only) promoted by NRLM
Sponsoring Agency (NRLM/SRLM Officials) identifies woman micro entrepreneur from each Self Help Group (SHG) and forwards application with KYC of the beneficiary to the nearest/ identified branches..
Activities Undertaken
All MSME Mudra and Agri Mudra activities.
(For 28 common activities as mentioned below, simplified procedure will be followed for loan up to Rs. 5.00 lakhs)
I.  Agri and allied Activities:
Mushroom Cultivation
Poultry
Sericulture
Pisci culture
Dairy
Goat, Sheep & Pig rearing
II. Services:
Beauty Parlour & Saloon
Tailoring & Boutique
Rural/eco-tourism
Restaurants & Catering services
Internet Café & photocopy
III. Trading:
Tea/Ice Cream/Milk/cold drinks shop
Grocery/stationery stores
Cosmetic Stores
Fruits/Vegetables shop
IV. Manufacturing:
Food Processing (jam, jelly, pickles, dairy products etc.), papad, & Snacks
Flour Mill/pulses processing/besan/spices.
Oil Processing Unit
Handloom & Handicraft, weaving and textiles, bags, file covers, baskets etc
Pottery and ceramics
Artificial jewellery (metals/bamboo/cane etc.)
Bangles/glass/lac items
Agarbatti/Candle wax and other wax items
Soap making/liquid soap/detergent/washing soap
Metal & Cane Products (Tin boxes, bins, drums)
Woollen Items (Hosiery/Embroidery)
Sanitary towels/ sanitary napkins/ toilet rolls etc.
Paper/leaf plates/cups & glasses manufacturing unit
Quantum of Loan
Min Loan Amount: Rs.80,000 Max Loan Amount: Rs.10.00 lakhs.
For 28 Specified activities eligible for CGFMU cover as given in "Activtities undertaken Tab"
Limit Upto Rs. 5.00 Lakhs
:- Simplified procedure (No requirement of financial statements, IT Returns, Quotations etc.) to be followed.
Limit above Rs. 5.00 lakhs upto Rs. 10.00 Lakhs
:- The loan application will be processed as per usual Credit Dispensation as applicable to MUDRA loans.
For other than these above 28 activities, where CGFMU cover is available:
For limits from Rs. 80,000.00 upto Rs. 10.00 lakhs
:- The loan application will be processed as per usual Credit Dispensation as applicable to MUDRA loans.
Facility
: Term Loan, CC and OD
Margin
: 20% of the project cost
Interest Rate
: As applicable to MSME / Agri Mudra activity undertaken
Moratorium
:  Maximum of 6 months for term loans.
Documents Required
Documents Required post Disbursement
: To ensure the end use of funds, disbursement shall be made directly to the supplier of Machinery/Equipment/ Raw Material etc., followed by submission of the original Tax Invoice/Bills
Proof of Residence
:- The loan application will be processed as per usual Credit Dispensation as applicable to MUDRA loans.
Proof of Identity / Address of the business Enterprise
:- Copies of relevant licenses / registration certificates / other documents pertaining to the ownership, identity and address of business unit, wherever applicable. Udyog Mitra Registration / Udyam Assist, wherever applicable.
Statement of accounts / copy of passbook (transactions for the last six months).
Photos (two copies) of proprietor / Partners.
SHG Name, Account details, linkages done
IBA approved common application form.
Forwarding Letter from SRLM
Declaration from owner of the property
Draft Project report / Projected Balance Sheets / Projected Financials / ITR to be obtained for both CC and Term Loan containing details of technical & economic viability (
To be obtained for loans based on activity and loan amount
).
Post disbursement Tax Invoice / Bills in original to be invariably obtained.
Security
Primary
:- Hypothecation of assets created out of finance from the Bank
Collateral
:- Nil. Accounts will be mandatorily covered under CGFMU
Credit Guarantee
CGFMU cover is mandatory wherever applicable. These fees will have to be collected from applicant on upfront basis.
Refund of CGFMU Guarantee fee:
Reimbursement of Credit Guarantee fee applicable up to Rs. 5.00 lakhs is available from “Women Enterprise Acceleration Fund”.
Actual Credit Guarantee fees will be reimbursed to Banks / Lending Institutions for providing loans to individual women SHG members under DAY NRLM Scheme for loans upto Rs. 5.00 Lakhs.
In case of loan amount exceeding Rs.5.00 lakhs, reimbursement of credit Guarantee fees will be done in proportion to the loan amount.
The reimbursement is available up to 5 years. Refund of CGFMU Fees is applicable retrospectively for accounts which are outstanding as on 01.04.2022.
The refund of CGFMU fees will be provided to an individual only once.
Interest Subvention
Women entrepreneurs making prompt repayment will be provided 2% interest subvention up to an outstanding of 1.50 Lakhs per member.
In case of loan outstanding exceeds Rs. 1.50 Lakhs, interest subvention will be limited to the ceiling of Rs. 1.50 lakhs.
The interest subvention shall be available up to a maximum duration of 3 years. Subvention is applicable retrospective for accounts which are outstanding as on 01.04.2022
The Interest Subvention will be provided to an individual only once and is limited to Women Self Help Group members being supported under DAY-NRLM in rural areas only.
FAQs
For more details, please visit nearest SBI Branch.
Last Updated On : Thursday, 05-02-2026