Purpose
To finance construction / acquisition of real estate such as office buildings, retail space, industrial or warehouse space, multiplex, hotels, restaurants, gymnasium, amusement parks, cold storage etc. where the prospect for repayment would generally be out of lease or rental payment or sale of asset or project cash flows or the unit’s cash flows.
Features
Target Group :
Proprietorship/ Partnership/ Company/ LLPs.
Facilities Available :
Drop-line Overdraft facility
Quantum of loan :
Minimum loan amount:
Rs.10 lakh.
Maximum loan amount:
Metro & Urban Centres: Up to Rs.50 Cr[Loan amount more than Rs.50 Cr may be permitted on a case-to-case basis]
Semi-Urban Centres: Rs.25 Cr
Rural Centres: Nil.
Pricing :
Attractive Interest rates based on rating of the Borrower/ External Rating or as per Scheme Specific Rating (if applicable) or as per extant guidelines of the Bank. EBR (Linked to Repo Rate and Currently EBR is Repo Rate + 2.65%) linked (for MSMEs) & 6 months MCLR linked (for Non-MSMEs)
Borrower’s Margin / Contribution :
25%
Repayment Period
Drop-line Overdraft Limit:
Limits can be sanctioned for a period of 12 months to 72 months, including the moratorium period. Interest to be serviced monthly during the period of moratorium also.
Processing Fee/ Upfront Fee :
1% of the limits (Upper Cap: Rs.10 Lacs).
Other Charges
: As per Bank Guidelines which will be appraised to the borrower before sanction of loans.
Special Feature
LTV: 50% of the realizable value of the immovable property.
Immovable property (compliant under SARFAESI Act) belonging to the unit, its proprietor/partners/ directors or their near relatives.
Eligibility Criteria
Existing customers who have already availed credit facilities from us.
New units with marketable assets to offer as security.
Takeover of existing units from other Bank/FIs permitted with satisfactory track record (Credit information report to be obtained), subject to complying with takeover norms mentioned under “Takeover criteria’ parameter.
Collateral Security
Immovable property (compliant under SARFAESI Act) belonging to Unit, its proprietor/partners/directors or their near relatives, in the name of Associate units with common partners/directors or their near relatives.
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Thursday, 09-01-2025