Purpose
For build-up of current assets and fixed assets needed for business purpose, capacity expansion, modernization, short term working capital (including shoring up of Net Working Capital, etc).
Features
Target Group :
All Business Units who want to avail loan facility for manufacturing and services activities along with self-employed and professional individuals covered by MSMED Act 2006, wholesale/retail trade.Udyam Registration Certificate (URC) shall be mandatorily obtained by the operating functionaries in case of MSME units. Non-MSME units may also be financed under this product..
Facilities Available :
Drop-line Overdraft facility OR Cash Credit
Quantum of Loan :
Minimum Loan Amount as > Rs.5 Cr
Maximum loan amount: Rs. 20 Cr.[Loan amount up to Rs.50 Cr may be permitted on a case-to-case basis]
Pricing :
Attractive Interest rates based on rating of the Borrower/ External Rating or as per Scheme Specific Rating (if applicable) or as per extant guidelines of the Bank. EBR (Linked to Repo Rate and Currently EBR is Repo Rate + 2.65%) linked (for MSMEs) & 6 months MCLR linked (for Non-MSMEs)
Borrower’s Margin / Contribution :
25%
Repayment Period:
Drop-line Overdraft Limit:
12 months to 240 months with either equated reduction in limit or customized reduction in limit, depending upon the cash accruals.
Max Moratorium period-18 months based on activity. Interest to be serviced monthly during the moratorium period.
Cash Credit:
On Demand.
Processing Fee/ Upfront Fee :
For Dropline OD:
Upfront/ processing fee of 1% of the limits will be collected at the time of sanction subject to a maximum of Rs.10 lakhs. If the DP is restored to original limit or enhanced at the time of annual review, upfront/ processing fee of 1% on the restituted amount will be collected.
For Cash Credit:
Once in a year. (Up to 0.65% of the loan amount)
Other Charges
: As per Bank Guidelines which will be appraised to the borrower before sanction of loans.
Special Feature
LTV: 60% of the realizable value of the immovable property.
Immovable property (compliant under SARFAESI Act) belonging to the unit, its proprietor/partners/ directors or their near relatives.
Eligibility Criteria
Existing Customer already availing credit facilities from us.
New units with marketable assets to offer as security.
Takeover of existing units from other Banks/ FIs with satisfactory track record. (Credit information report to be obtained)
Collateral Security
Immovable property (compliant under SARFAESI Act) belonging to the unit, its proprietor/partners/ directors or their near relatives.
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Thursday, 26-02-2026