Project Finance
Project Finance & Structuring Strategic Business Unit
A one-stop-shop of financial services for new projects as well as expansion, diversification and modernisation of existing projects in infrastructure and non -infrastructure sectors besides providing structuring solutions to all the sectors.
Expertise
Being India's largest bank and with the rich experience gained over generation, SBI brings considerable expertise in engineering financial packages that address complex financial requirements.
Project Finance SBU is well equipped to provide a bouquet of structured financial solutions with the support of the largest Treasury in India (i.e. SBI's), International Division of SBI, SBI Capital Markets Limited &SBICAP Trustee Company Limited.
The global presence as also the well spread domestic branch network of SBI ensures that the delivery of your project specific financial needs are totally taken care of.
Lead role in many projects
Allied roles such as Security Agent, Monitoring/TRA agent et
Synergy with SBI caps (exchange of leads, joint attempt in bidding for projects, joint syndication etc.). In a way, the two institutions are complimentary to each other. We have in house expertise (in appraising projects) in infrastructure sector as well as non-infrastructure sector. Some of the areas are as follows:
Infrastructure sector:
Transport and Logistics
Roads and bridges
Ports
Shipyards
Inland Waterways
Airport
Railway track including electrical & signalling system, tunnels, via ducts, bridges
Railway rolling stock along with workshop and associated maintenance facilities
Railway terminal infrastructure including stations and adjoining commercial infrastructure
Urban Public Transport (except rolling stock in case of urban road transport)
Logistics Infrastructure
Bulk Material Transportation Pipelines
Energy
Electricity Generation
Electricity Transmission
Electricity Distribution
Oil/Gas/Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) storage facility
Water and Sanitation
Solid Waste Management
Water treatment plants
Sewage collection, treatment and disposal system
Irrigation (dams, channels, embankments, etc.)
Storm Water Drainage System
Communication
Telecommunication (fixed network)
Telecommunication towers
Telecommunication & Telecom Services
Social and Commercial Infrastructure
Education Institutions (capital stock)
Sports Infrastructure
Hospitals (capital stock)
Tourism infrastructure viz. (i) three-star or higher category classified hotels located outside cities with population of more than 1 million, (ii) ropeways and cable cars
Common infrastructure for Industrial Parks and other parks with industrial activity such as food parks, textile parks, Special Economic Zones, tourism facilities and agriculture markets
Post-harvest storage infrastructure for agriculture and horticultural produce including cold storage
Terminal markets
Soil-testing laboratories
Cold Chain
Affordable Housing
Non-infrastructure sector:
Manufacturing: Cement, steel, mining, engineering, auto components, textiles, Pulp & papers, chemical & pharmaceuticals, etc.
Services: Tourism &Hospitality, Educational Institutions, Health Industry, etc.
Expertise
Rupee term loan
Foreign currency term loan/convertible bonds/GDR/ADR
Debt advisory service
Loan syndication
Loan underwriting
Deferred payment guarantee
Why Project Finance SBU?
Since its inception in 1996 the Project Finance SBU has built-up a strong reputation for its in-depth understanding of the infrastructure sector as well as non-infrastructure sector in India and we have the ability to provide tailor made financial solutions to meet the growing & diversified requirement for different levels of the project. The recent transactions undertaken by PF-SBU include a wide range of projects undertaken by the Indian Corporates. Over a period of time, PFSBU has acquired expertise and required skills to offer entire project finance related requirements of domestic infrastructure projects.
What's in it for you?
Last Updated On : Friday, 20-12-2024