Purpose
To part-finance setting up of Compressed Bio-Gas (CBG) plants
Features
Target Group :
Entrepreneurs who have been awarded Letter of Intents (LOIs) by Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) for supply of Compressed Bio-Gas under SATAT Scheme.
Obtention of LOI from OMCs is a pre-condition for processing the loan.
Facilities Available :
Term Loan, Working Capital
Quantum of Loan :
Rs.50 Crores Max. (to be handled by R&DB) Above Rs.50 Crores (to be handled by CCG)
Pricing :
Attractive Interest rates based on rating of the Borrower/ External Rating or as per Scheme Specific Rating (if applicable) or as per extant guidelines of the Bank.
EBR (Linked to Repo Rate and Currently EBR is Repo Rate + 2.65%) linked (for MSMEs) & 6 months MCLR linked (for Non-MSMEs)
Borrower's Margin / Contribution :
Term Loan: Min. 30% of Project Cost. Project cost shall include all components including margin money for Working Capital as per Bank guidelines on financing Term Loan / Project loans.
Working Capital: Min. 25%
Repayment Period :
Repayment tenor:
Term loan repayable in 10-12 years. DCCO to be clearly documented / recorded. The overall door-to-door tenor (moratorium + repayment tenor) not to exceed tenor of offtake agreement, which is 15 years and may be extended on mutual consent. For Renewable Energy projects, overall door-to-door tenor permissible is upto 15 years.
Operating unit should also examine availability of tail period at the time of analyzing the financial model and commercial viability of the project.
Processing Fee/ Upfront Fee :
As per Bank's extant guidelines
Other Charges :
NA
Special Feature :
The CBG projects shall be financed through a few identified SME Intensive Branches in each Circle to develop the expertise and improve the turnaround time (TAT). Circles may identify and designate few Branches for the Product
Target Group & Eligibility
Entrepreneurs who have been awarded Letter of Intents (LOIs) by Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) for supply of Compressed Bio-Gas under SATAT Scheme.
Obtention of LOI from OMCs is a pre-condition for processing the loan.
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 20-03-2024