Loan under this facility can be sanctioned for any legitimate commercial purpose, such as:
Working capital needs
Acquisition of machinery for modernization/ Expansion/ Renovation etc.
For buying equipment by Self Employed Professionals/ Persons, Proprietorship and all other constituents.
Design and introduction of new layouts in the factory to enhance productivity.
Acquisition of consumable tools, jigs, fixtures, vehicles, equipment, furniture upholstery, etc.
Purchase of new and old Commercial vehicle.
Any other business-related purpose.
The above list is only illustrative. Loans for any legitimate requirement connected with the business activity of the applicant/ borrower (s) can be considered.
Features
Type of facility
:
Term Loan, Working Capital, Overdraft and Non-Fund Based Facility
Quantum of loan
Minimum – Above Rs 10,00,000/-
Maximum –Rs 5 Crores
Loan Term
Cash Credit: Repayable on demand. Loan to be renewed every year.
Term Loan/ Dropline OD: Not more than 7 years including moratorium not exceeding 6 months. Annual review to be done for all loans.
Repayment
Cash Credit : Repayable on demand.
Term Loan/ Dropline OD : Principal Equally Distributed, Negotiated Repayment for Term Loan and Monthly Reducing DP for Dropline OD.
Pre-payment
: Pre-payment allowed without any pre-payment penalty.
Pricing
: Competitive Pricing Linked to EBR (Linked to Repo Rate and Currently EBR is Repo Rate + 2.65%)
Security
Primary : Hypothecation of Stocks, Machinery, Movable Assets acquired out of Bank's finance
Collateral: Nil
Personal Guarantee : Personal Guarantee of Proprietor, Partners and all the promoters’ directors as per constitution of the firm.
CGTMSE Cover : All eligible loans under SBI Asmita to be covered under CGTMSE.
CGTMSE fee to be borne by the Borrower, as advised by CGTMSE from time to time. CGTMSE fee will be auto calculated at the time of coverage. Before disbursement of limit CGPAN must be obtained and updated in CBS with marking the CGTMSE cover as Yes in CBS.
Special Feature :
Bank has provided add-on with the product. For details please visit the Branch.
Eligible Target Group/ Customers
Unit should run and managed by Women Entrepreneur and in case of Partnership firm or Company the shareholding of the Women entrepreneurs should be more than 50%.
All MSME Units including Proprietorship Firm/ Partnership Firm/ Closely held public & private limited company dealing in Manufacturing, trading or service sector.
MSMEs (Identification/ Categorization as MSME will be as per the Revised MSME definition in accordance with RBI Circular dated July 7, 2021
URN - Udyam Registration Number / Udyam Assist Certificate is mandatory
All Green Field units/ Projects with Limit above Rs 1 Cr to Rs 5 Cr.
All Brown field units/ Projects with Limit above Rs 10 lakhs to Rs 5 Cr.
Detailed guidelines is available at Branch
Last Updated On : Thursday, 27-03-2025