Scheme of SBI Fintech Innovation Incubation Program (SBI FIIP)
(For general public of Indian citizens)
Background and Objective:
SBI FIIP intends to nurture innovative start-up businesses in their pursuit to become scalable and sustainable enterprises on FINTECH domain. Under FIIP, SBI is creating world class incubation facilities at Navi Mumbai and Hyderabad with suitable physical infrastructure in terms of seating capacities, capital equipment and operating facilities, coupled with the availability of sectoral experts for mentoring the applicants, required for encouraging innovative start-ups. The overarching purpose of this program is to promote a culture of FINTECH innovation and entrepreneurship in India.
The following are the highlights of the scheme of SBI Fintech Innovation Incubation Program:
Facility provided by the Bank
The incubatee will have access to India’s largest Fintech ecosystem and opportunity to create Go-to-Market Business Plan, develop a working model with SBI Team.
Incubatee(s) will be provided dedicated office space and mentorship from Business and Technology and free Infrastructure Facilities in Innovation Centre.
In order to lessen the burden on the incubatee monthly stipend will be paid for the deserving candidates. No residential accommodation will be provided by the Bank under this programme.
Incubatee on-barding process
Interested individuals or team can apply by sending their application with full details on the form available on the link below.
The applicant of shortlisted entries will have to make a presentation on their idea/ solution to the Selection Board of Bank at GITC, Belapur, Navi Mumbai/ SBIIT Hyderabad as per the decision of the Bank.
On selection of the applicant’s idea/ solution the incubatee will be assigned an incubation mentor to assist the incubatee.
The incubatee should prepare project report covering Scope of Work, Timeline and milestones, Details of expenses and infrastructure etc.
Summary
Timeframe
Idea Modelling
Prototype Development
2 Months
10 months
What will happen?
Identification of the business sponsor.
Business Validation / Feasibility & Effectiveness of the idea.
Business modelling & Strategy building.
Startup registration and incorporation.
Proceed for MVP
Working on business adoption
What we will provide?
Assign business-mentor(s).
Periodical meetings with mentor(s) to convert the idea into a valuable business proposition
Periodic mentoring sessions.
Networking with business teams
Access to Bank’s data to build prototypes.
Eligibility
The program is applicable for Developers, Startups, Entrepreneurs (individuals or teams) having Fintech based innovative idea on emerging and new technologies. The opportunity lies to join hands with SBI to be self-reliant and incubate novel technology and business ideas into viable commercial business products.
Scheme Duration and Location of work
The incubation will be for a period of 12 months
Currently the working location are at two places only:
GITC : SBI Global IT Centre, CBD Belapur, Navi Mumbai.
SBIIT : State Bank Institute of Innovation and Technology, Road no 12, Banjara Hills, Hyderabad.
Incubatee Responsibilities and Terms & Conditions
Incubatee will carry the work independently and create up-to-date documentation of the technical work. Report the periodic progress of the project to the Bank.
Incubatee will conduct a prototype demo/ POC before the business unit and on successful completion a certificate will be given to the incubatee.
Incubatee(s) is expected to float a company during the period of incubation.
Once Incubatee accepts the offer of incubation and on-boarded is not allowed to leave the program without the prior permission from the Bank.
If Bank finds any of the Incubatee project is not progressing as expected, the Bank reserves the right to terminate that particular project without any risk and responsibilities towards the Bank.
The incubatee shall sign a Non-Disclosure Agreement and other documents specified by the Bank at the time of on-boarding into the program.
Incubatee shall offer Restricted IPR on the product developed under the program by signing Restricted IPR agreement by the Incubatee/Startup Company.
The entire artefacts, source code, design documentation etc. produced under this program will be proprietary of the Bank until the completion certificate transferring full IPR to the startup company of the Incubatee. The Incubatee cannot sell the developed product in an individual capacity.
Disclaimer
The purpose of the above is to provide information to the interested applicants for the completion of their application. It is neither an agreement nor an offer made by SBI.
SBI does not make any representation or warranty as to the accuracy, reliability or completeness of the information in this document and it is not possible to consider particular needs of each applicant.
SBI will not be responsible for any delay in receiving the applications.
Applicants can seek clarifications on the guidelines through the email
incubate@sbi.co.in
All communications related to the scheme including announcements of shortlisted applicants and final selection of applicants will be sent to the applicants directly and will not be made available on this website.
The issuance of the above information does not imply that SBI is bound to select an Applicant. SBI reserves the right to accept/reject any or all of applications submitted in response to the document at any stage without assigning any reasons whatsoever.
SBI’s decision will be final and no explanation or justification for any aspect of the selection process shall be given.
Applicants shall bear all costs associated with the preparation and submission of their applications, and their participation in the selection process.
Applicants finally shortlisted after the selection process will have to sign an NDA and other agreements with SBI on Bank’s policy.
SBI strongly discourages engagement of consultants or any external agencies on a paid basis for preparation and submission of the applications.
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Monday, 02-12-2019