Objective/ Purpose
For installation of Solar rooftop / ground mounted grid-connected systems for captive use (Captive Variant)/ Other than Captive use i.e., Sale of Power under Power Purchase Arrangement (PPA) under Group Captive, Open Access (Third Party), RESCO.
Surya Shakti Solar Finance
Parameter
Captive Variant
Other than Captive Projects
Target Group
Existing and Prospective SME & Business enterprises, having requirement for installation of Solar rooftop / ground mounted grid connected systems.
Captive Solar projects of Co-operative Housing Societies can also be financed under the product.
All the Existing and Prospective SME & Business enterprises who are setting up Solar power projects (Rooftop/Ground mounted) and having a long term PPA for sale of Power. Solar Projects under Group Captive with a long-term PPA are also eligible under the product.
Facilities Available
Term Loan
Term Loan
Quantum of Loan
Maximum: Rs.10 Crores
Maximum: Rs.50 Crores
Pricing
Attractive Interest rates based on rating of the Borrower/ External Rating or as per Scheme Specific Rating (if applicable) or as per extant guidelines of the Bank.
EBR linked (for MSMEs) & 6 months MCLR linked (for Non-MSMEs)
Borrower's Margin / Contribution
20% (minimum) Deviation not permitted
25% (minimum) Deviation.
Security
Hypothecation of Assets created out of Bank finance.
Negative lien on factory land & building / business premises on which the solar rooftop / ground mounted grid-connected system is proposed to be installed. An undertaking to be obtained from the borrower and kept on record.
A Cash collateral of 25%, in case of the loans to registered Co-operative Housing Societies.
Repayment Period
10 years (maximum incl. initial moratorium)
15 years (maximum incl. initial moratorium)
Processing Fee/ Upfront Fee
0.75% of Term loan amount + applicable GST
Other Charges
NA
Eligibility of EPC Contractor
EPC should be registered with MNRE/ DISCOM.
NA
Eligibility
Existing and Prospective SME & Business enterprises having requirement for installing solar rooftop / ground mounted projects for captive use.
CIBIL Score of all Promoters not less than 650.
Solar systems to be Grid connected.
Net Metering Arrangement.
MSME unit should have Udyam Registration Number (URN)
Post installation of solar rooftop / ground mounted grid-connected system Electricity Cost Savings shall cover at least the monthly repayment obligations.
Financial benchmarks:
Average Gross DSCR considering all Term Loans: 1.20 (minimum)
Fixed Asset Coverage Ratio (FACR): 1.10 (minimum)
Interest Coverage Ratio (ICR): 1.75 (minimum)
Debt:Equity : 4:1(maximum)
Debt / EBIDTA: 6 (maximum)
Terms & Conditions
Collateral Security :
Not mandatory, if security coverage is adequate as per Bank’s assessment.
Guarantee :
Personal Guarantee of Promoters (proprietor / partners / directors, etc.)
Pre-payment charges :
Nil
Online Portal
(Apply now)
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 11-03-2026