Purpose :
To meet the Working Capital requirements of Commission Agents / Arthias engaged in trading activity.
Features
Target Group :
Commission Agents/ Arthias engaged in Retail Trade.
Facilities Available :
Cash Credit
Quantum of loan :
Min: > Rs. 10 lakh
Max: Rs 5.00 crores
Pricing :
Attractive Interest Rates linked to External Benchmark based Lending Rate EBR (Linked to Repo Rate and Currently EBR is Repo Rate + 2.65%) based on rating of the Borrower.
Borrower’s Margin / Contribution
Stocks: 30%
Receivables (not older than 6 months): 40%
Repayment Period :
On Demand
Processing Fee/ Upfront Fee :
Up to 0.50% of limit sanctioned per annum.
(Min: Rs 5,000/- and Max: Rs. 50,000/- plus applicable taxes)
Other Charges
: As per Bank Guidelines which will be appraised to the borrower before sanction of loans.
Special Feature
It should be ensured that the eligible units have obtained Udyam Registration Certificate in case of MSMEs, wherever applicable, as per extant instructions.
Commission Agents / Arthias (functioning in markets/ mandies) also engaged in Retail trade activities and enjoying good reputation in the market with sufficient experience in the line of their business for the past 3 years. They should be registered with the Market Committee and possess a valid license issued by the Authorized government agencies.
In addition to the existing criteria, new units promoted by family members / partners of existing firm banking with SBI may also be considered eligible for loan provided they have at least one financial statement and minimum 6 months of operations / data.
Eligibility
Commission Agents / Arthias (functioning in markets/ mandies) also engaged in Retail trade activities and enjoying good reputation in the market with sufficient experience in the line of their business for the past 3 years. They should be registered with the Market Committee and possess a valid license issued by the Authorized government agencies. In addition to the existing criteria, new units promoted by family members / partners of existing firm banking with SBI may also be considered eligible for loan provided they have at least one financial statement and minimum 6 months of operations / data.
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Friday, 09-02-2024