Video KYC Account Opening
1. Can minor accounts be opened through this process?
No. The process is available for customers who are major in age, literate, and should be able to sign uniformly.
2. Can joint accounts be opened through this process?
No. The process is presently available for singly operated accounts only.
3. When can customer carry out the video KYC process? Is it available 24*7?
Customer can carry out the video KYC on any working day during Business Hours. This facility is not available on Bank Holidays at the video calling centre (LCPC), including second/fourth Saturdays and all Sundays. It will depend upon the Home branch selected and the working hours of the LCPC linked to Home branch.
4. Does this account is activated for Debit and Credit transactions?
Accounts will be opened automatically with debit restriction after successful video KYC, however you can credit this account. The account will be debit activated post verification and authorization within T+2 days.
5. Can I open multiple accounts using Video KYC?
No. Only one account can be opened using Video KYC for user who is New to bank
6. Is email address mandatory to open this account?
No, Email address is not mandatory for this account. However, in case email address is being entered in the App, a separate OTP is sent to the email of the customer to verify the same and to ensure the correctness of the email being entered into the system
7. Is PAN mandatory to open accounts through this process?
PAN is mandatory to open this account.
8. Why do Customer need to give access to his/her location for the video KYC process? Why do he/she need to give consent for his/her camera and microphone?
Providing location access will help in ascertaining his/her location. According to RBI guidelines, he/she need to be in India to carry out the VCIP. Location of the customer is for verification purpose only and will not be shared with anyone. Since it is a video verification process, the consent to use the camera and microphone is needed to proceed with the VCIP process.
9. What if Insta Plus journey is started by mistake and customer wants to open any other type of account (Insta /Digital /Regular) Savings account?
The customer has to wait for T+2 days till the application is purged.
10. Whether passbook and cheque book will be given to customer?
Cheque book are available on request by post logging through YONO or and passbook can be obtained by visiting branch
11. Customer had tried carrying out the Video KYC process but is not successful due to slow internet connection and video quality. What can he/she do?
Customer can also open Savings account through YONO using e-KYC/OVD by entering all the data and visiting branch once for completion of KYC process. Alternatively, he/she can directly visit any Branch with Aadhaar/OVD and can open Savings account.
12. Will there be any limitation on transactions if the account is opened through VCIP process?
Once the account is opened and activated there are no limitations on number or amount of transactions on the account
13. What can lead to rejection of video KYC?
Video KYC can be rejected due to various reasons such as low video quality etc. showing incorrect PAN card, customer’s photos could not be captured due to insufficient lighting etc
14. If the Customer has rejected location/camera access by mistake. What should he/she do?
Customer need to grant location and Camera access to proceed with the VCIP. If the same has been rejected by mistake he/she can resume the process using mobile number and application password.
15. What are the benefits to customer for opening these accounts?
The benefits are as below:
• No Issuance/ Annual Maintenance Charges for ATM Debit Card
• No Charges for non- maintenance of Average Monthly Balance.
• Free Consolidated Account Statement
• Free SMS and Internet Banking facility
16. What will be the charges in this account?
Charges for all services other than those mentioned above will be in accordance with extant service charges applicable to Regular Savings Bank account without cheque book
17. I have not received account number after completion of Video KYC call?
Please resume from the YONO Application and check the status of your call, if successful you will be able to view the Account number.
Last Updated On : Monday, 03-02-2025