Pre Approved Personal Loan (PAPL)
1. What is PAPL
PAPL is a Pre-Approved Personal Loan specially designed for meeting your urgent financial requirements. It is a hassle-free loan made available instantly.
2. Who is eligible for PAPL
Salary Account holders with a certain minimum stipulated salary and Non-Salary Account holders with a certain stipulated minimum balance, Pensioners with a certain minimum stipulated Pension, Existing Xpress Credit Borrowers having satisfactory run account for last one year with minimum required outstanding are eligible for PAPL. The eligible customers are pre-selected on the basis of an analytic engine.
3. For what purposes can I avail this loan
It is a general-purpose loan for meeting any legitimate personal needs other than speculative activities
4. What is the minimum & maximum amount offered under PAPL
The minimum & maximum amount offered under PAPL comprising below mentioned products will be Rs. 1,00,000/- & Rs. 15,00,000/- respectively. For Pre-approved pension loan minimum loan amount is Rs.25,000/- & maximum loan amount is Rs. 5,00,000/-
5. How do I know that I am eligible for PAPL
The eligible customers are informed of their loan eligibility through SMS/email/in-App notifications & in the offer section of Internet Banking. The customers can check his/her eligibility by sending SMS PAPL XXXX on 567676 ( XXXX is last 4 digit of SB Account number)
6. What if I avail PAPL and still I need a higher amount of loan
You may approach your branch for assistance in such cases for availing other variant of loan
7. When I am eligible for two products, how can I avail both the products in YONO?
In case, you are eligible for two products, you will be shown the offer with only one product with the higher of the two-eligibility amount under PAPL
8. What is the repayment period
The maximum repayment period ranging from 6 months to 84 months depending on the product variant which is displayed during the journey
9. Is there any Processing fee
Depending upon the product feature, processing fee may range from Nil to maximum Rs 10000/- (plus GST), subject to revision
10. Do I need to provide any documents
No documents are required to be provided
11. Do I have to visit the Branch for applying the loan
No. For your convenience, this loan is made available to you through App/Portal
12. How will I repay the loan
An automatic standing Instruction will be set up on a day selected by you, for transfer of EMI from your Savings Account to Loan Account
13. Will my loan account be closed automatically after payment of all EMIs
Yes
14. Can I pre-close my account
Yes. The loan account can be pre-closed through App/RINB or by visiting the Home Branch for the purpose
15. Is there any pre-payment penalty
Yes, depending upon product feature. The product feature can be seen in Key Fact Statement
16. The Customer (Lead) is available in the Analytics Dashboard but offer not visible in YONO
YONO/Service Desk request should be raised by the branch containing the relevant information
17. Customer was eligible previously but did not avail PAPL; however, this month the customer is not being reflected in dashboard. Can Analytics Department include such customer in the current dashboard
No. The leads are selected monthly based on eligibility criteria set by business (PBBU). If the customer fulfils all the eligibility criteria, he/she will be included in the dashboard in the coming month
18. A customer has become NPA recently and has been reflected as eligible lead in PAPL Dashboard. Can this customer avail PAPL through YONO
No. A real time NPA validation is done at YONO end while PAPL loan journey on YONO. Such customers will not be able to avail PAPL on YONO
19. For how long PAPL lead will appear on Analytics Dashboard
The PAPL leads are refreshed on monthly basis. The customers will be available on dashboards till the next leads refresh. The same customers may repeat as eligible lead in consecutive months if they fulfil all the business criteria
20. A customer already has a live PAPL account. Will he/she be eligible to a new PAPL product?
No. IT YONO does a cross product validation for customers, if she/he already have a live PAPL, the customer is removed from the eligible list before publishing the leads on YONO. However,the customer may be eligible again once the loan is fully repaid and closed subject to business criteria
Last Updated On : Monday, 03-02-2025