1. How do I register for the app if I already have my Internet Banking (INB) credentials?
In case you already have existing Internet Banking (INB) credentials, you can directly register on YONO SBI app using your existing credentials.
2. How do I register for the app if do not have Internet Banking (INB) credentials?
In case you do not have any existing Internet Banking (INB) credentials, you can register on YONO SBI app by creating your INB credentials using your ATM card details. In case you do not have active ATM card, please visit the branch after generating Reference Number through mobile App by choosing to ‘Register with account details option
3. What is SIM Binding Functionality?
SIM binding functionality integrates SIM number, device id and User ID/MPIN to ensure that YONO SBI app is registered only on a particular device which is having the SIM having registered mobile number in CBS. No other user can simultaneously register for YONO SBI App on that device. (One YONO User & One Mobile Device).
4. Can user with e-SIM register on YONO SBI App?
Yes, User with e-SIM can register on YONO SBI App
5. Will YONO SBI work on Duplicate/Ported SIM?
Yes. But user will have to register again with combination of new SIM, Device ID, and User Id/MPIN.
6. What if mobile phone is lost along with SIM?
Customer can re-register on new handset using duplicate SIM. Thereafter, Old device will be automatically de-registered.
7. What is MPIN?
MPIN is a 6-digit numeric code which is used to login into the mobile app.
8. Is explicit customer consent obtained for MPIN usage?
Yes. Explicit consent would be obtained from the customer in order to use MPIN as one of the options for login credentials for the YONO SBI App.
9. Is MPIN mandatory for login into the YONO SBI App?
No. MPIN is not mandatory for the user to log-in into YONO SBI App. A user can also login through her/his valid INB credentials.
10. My Handset does not have any of the OS based device lock facility like pass code, pattern lock and biometric verification. Can I register and login into the YONO SBI App?
No. A user with a handset without OS based device lock facility (pass code, pattern lock, biometric verification) would not be able to login and register in the current version of YONO SBI App.
11. My Handset has an OS based device lock facility like pass code, pattern lock and biometric verification. But I have disabled the feature on my handset. Can I still login to the app?
If no security is enabled in the mobile device, user will not be allowed to register for the YONO SBI App. If a user willingly disables device security after the registration process, app will intelligently track device level security and disable app usage.
12. Can a user change his preference later on, after opting for using MPIN as a login option?
Yes. A user can change his preference at any time. If he chooses not to use MPIN as a credential for login into the App, he/she can use INB credentials.
13. Can NRI customer use “YONO” to view and transact through their accounts.
Yes. NRI customer with INB credentials can use YONO SBI app to view and transact, provided the registered mobile number is an Indian number. However NRI specific functionalities are not available as of now and will be provided subsequently. At present, customers with non-Indian mobile numbers cannot register on YONO SBI app.
Last Updated On : Monday, 03-02-2025