1. I am sending request for mobile top up but I am getting a SMS that the amount has been reversed. What is wrong?
You may not be sending the request for the correct amount as per the plans of the prepaid mobile. Please find out the correct amount for the plan from the service provider and send the request again.
2. Is there a charge for using this facility?
No, SBI provides this facility free of charge for its customers.
3 Is registration a pre-requisite for Mobile Top UP?
No, separate registration is required for top-up through Mobile. You can top up any mobile number through 'Top up & Recharge > Mobile Recharge ' menu.
4. What is the min and max amount I can top up through this?
Please check with your mobile operator for the same. The amount to be topped up should be as per the plan of the prepaid connection.
5. When will my Bank Account be debited?
Your bank account will be debited immediately.
6. Will I get the same talk-time validity as I would at the local retailer?
Yes. You will get the same talk-time and validity as you would get at your local retailer based on service provider.
7. Can I know what is the talk-time and validity that I will get before I do the top up?
Please check the same with the mobile operator's Call Centre or on their website.
8. How long does it take for me to complete a Top-up?
Normally, your mobile will get topped-up in less than 5 minutes. However, at times, due to network congestion, it might take up to 2 hours. If it is not successful, you will get a message that the amount is reversed, and your account will be credited.
9. Will I receive a confirmation for completion of top-up through the facility?
Once the top-up is completed, you will receive a confirmation message from the operator as well as from SBI.
10. What if I do not get any confirmation message from the operator?
Once the top-up is completed, you will receive a confirmation message from the operator. In case of non-receipt of confirmation message, please check the talk-time limit of the mobile phone that you have topped up. If the talk-time does not increase, please contact your operator.
11. Can I top up when I am on roaming?
Yes, you can
12. How can I top up while I am traveling abroad?
If you are enabled for international roaming, you can top up your mobile phone using this facility. However, please check the cost of SMS on International roaming.
13. What will happen if, by mistake, I have entered the wrong mobile number during Mobile Top Up and my account has been debited for the same? How do I get the amount back?
In case the mobile number entered by you was a valid number, that number will get topped up and the amount cannot be refunded. In case the number entered by you was not a valid number, the amount will be reversed and your account will be credited.
14. When can my request be invalid?
A request will be invalid on account of following reasons:
Non existing mobile number / Postpaid mobile number
Incorrect amount as per the plan of the prepaid connection of provider
15. How do I top up my DTH connection?
For receiving Direct Top up for your DTH, the following steps are to be followed. Select Top up Recharge from Main Menu > choose DTH Recharge > Select DTH Service Provider from dropdown.
Enter ‘Viewing Card Number’ and ‘Amount to be recharged’.
Select ‘Debit from Account’ > Submit and Confirm. Your DTH account will be directly topped up.
Last Updated On : Tuesday, 04-02-2025