1. What kind of fund transfer can I do in YONO Lite?
You can do the following types of transactions:
Transfer to Self-account
Transfer to Third Party Accounts within SBI
Fund Transfer to Other Bank Account through IMPS/RTGS/NEFT
Transfer to accounts using IMPS-Mobile No & MMID
Quick Transfer & Donation
Send mcash
2. What are self-accounts?
Self-accounts are your accounts that have been enabled for YONO Lite transactions.
3. How can I transfer funds to account in another branch of SBI? Can I transfer funds to my own accounts with different branches?
Yes, you can. You can transfer funds to your own account in same branch / other branch through YONO Lite by clicking on Fund Transfer Tab>>Self Accounts. To transfer funds within SBI to third party accounts you need to add a new beneficiary. Refer Add and Manage Beneficiary section of FAQ.
4. What is IFS code and how do I find out IFS code of non SBI branch?
IFS code is an alpha numeric code –a unique identification number given by RBI. It is printed on the face of cheque book and over each cheque leaf. Also, you can find on Passbook.
5. What do you mean by other Bank account payee? Why do I have to give so much detail for registering Other Bank payee?
Other Bank account payee is an account which is maintained by another bank. The money is transferred to accounts with other bank by using NEFT/RTGS/IMPS and all the information asked to identify and verify the authenticity of beneficiary are mandatory to ensure secure transaction.
6. Is it enough if I mention the short name of the other bank payee?
It is advisable to give proper name of other Bank’s payee. However, at present only Account number and IFSC code is verified while transferring funds to other bank accounts
7. Why do I have to enter maximum limit for every payee that I register?
This is to ensure that you do not, by mistake, send more than the stipulated amount to the payee. Your mobile handset will prompt you if you enter more than the maximum limit for any fund transfer.
8. I have entered a maximum limit of Rs. xxxx for one payee. Can I change it later?
Yes, you can. Go to ‘Fund Transfer’ select “Add/Manage Beneficiaries”, provide profile password Select Beneficiary type from dropdown and then tap on the 'Edit' button against the beneficiary’s name. Edit Limit and Submit.
9. How long will it take to transfer fund?
The intra bank fund transfers (SBI to SBI), takes place immediately
Inter- Bank fund transfer (SBI to any other bank) will follow NEFT settlement on half hourly interval on 24x7 basis. Settlement will be done on the same day. However, the interbank fund transfers routed through the IMPS option will be accepted for processing 24 x7 and the Funds transfer takes place immediately.
10. Is there any way to make stray payments without registering the payee details? Should I always register an account before transferring funds? Is there any way to avoid the process of payee registration for one time payments?
SBI YONO Lite users can now make instant funds transfer to beneficiaries without their prior registration. Steps to perform Quick Transfer:
The remitter logs into SBI YONO Lite application 
Select “Quick Transfer & Donations” >> “Send Money using Account Details”
The remitter enters the Beneficiary name, Account number, IFSC, Amount and “Remarks” and proceeds for payment. No prior registration of the beneficiary is required.
Last Updated On : Tuesday, 04-02-2025