Remittances Other than Middle East - NRI
Wherever you may be in the World, remitting money to India couldn't be made easier. We offer multiple channels of other than middle east remittances to suit your needs. These channels are based on the time within which you need to send money, remittance charges applicable and the mode of remittance.
Instant Transfer
Instant Transfer is a real time rupee remittance facility from SBI Foreign Offices in 15* countries across the world to your / beneficiary's account maintained with SBI in India at any of the over 22,000 Core Banking Branches of SBI, as also to over 65,000 NEFT/ RTGS enabled branches of other banks in India.
*Remittance from Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Israel, Japan, Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal, Oman, Singapore, South Africa and UK to India
By far the Fastest way to send remittance
Attractive Exchange Rates and low remittance charges
Facility also available to non-account holders (of our foreign branches) at certain centres
Charges for ‘Instant Transfer’ vary at different branches. Branches in some countries may offer the facility at concessional rates to their account holders. Please contact our branch in your Country to know the schedule of charges of ‘Instant Transfer’ for you.
Foreign branches offering Instant Transfer
Please visit:
SBI Express Remit
and
OnlineSBI Global
SWIFT / Wire Transfer
You can send remittance to your beneficiary’s account in India from your overseas bank through SWIFT (MT 103). Salient features of this facility are as under:
Facilitates remittances from anywhere in the world to any part in India
Beneficiary's account, if maintained with us, is credited through Core Banking within 1 business day of receipt of message
Accounts of beneficiaries in other Banks will be credited through NEFT / RTGS within 2 business days
Remitters to provide the following information to their Bankers while sending remittance, for incorporating in the SWIFT messages:
Mention correct SWIFT code as per following -
For remittances up to USD 25,000 or equivalent: SBININBBFXD
For remittances more than USD 25,000 or equivalent: SWIFT code of home branch of the beneficiary. If home branch of beneficiary does not have SWIFT code, then please mention SWIFT code of a link branch or any nearby SBI branch of that city / state. Please
click here
to view the SWIFT codes of all SWIFT enabled SBI branches.
11 digits account number of the beneficiary (with initial digit as non-zero). If International Bank Account Number (IBAN) needs to be mentioned then, please mention beneficiary’s 11 digits account number only in IBAN field. Please do not prefix or suffix SWIFT / IFSC Code etc.
Full name and complete address of beneficiary
SBI Branch Code / IFSC Code
For other banks beneficiary existing CBS account number, bank and branch name, IFSC Code
Full name, address and account number of the remitter
Purpose of remittance
Details of correspondent / intermediary Bank, in case if remitting bank is not direct correspondent of State Bank of India. Please
click here
to view all correspondent bank accounts.
Rs. 50/- is levied by SBI in India for handling inward remittances.
Inward remittance credited to account is subject to applicable GST as per the table below. Please note that GST is calculated on tiered basis based on the amount credited:
Gross amount credited
Service Charges
Up to Rs. 1,00,000
0.18% of the gross amount
Above Rs. 1,00,000 to Rs. 10,00,000
0.09% of the amount exceeding Rs. 1,00,000
Above Rs. 10,00,000
0.018% of the amount exceeding Rs. 10,00,000
Sample SWIFT transfer instruction form, which remitter can submit at his / her remitting bank:
Field 56
(Correspondent Bank / Intermediary Institution details)
SBI's Correspondent Bank Name:
SWIFT Code:
SBI's Nostro Account No:
Additional Details (if any):
Please
click here
to view all correspondent bank accounts and corresponding details.
Field 57
(Beneficiary Bank details)
Bank Name:
State Bank of India
SBI Branch Name:
SWIFT Code of SBI Branch:
Please
click here
to view the SWIFT codes of all SWIFT enabled SBI branches
Field 59
(Beneficiary details)
Beneficiary Name:
Beneficiary's Account No:
Beneficiary's Address:
Field 70/72
(Remittance information / purpose of remittance)
Please mention the desired disposal of remittance amount, such as
Convert to Indian Rupees and credit the beneficiary account
Issue NRE / NRO / FCNR (B) deposit for
<please mention the duration>
years in
<please mention the currency
if FCNR (B) has to be created >
currency
Get instructions from beneficiary
In case of any issues about this product, please contact our International Remittance Centre (IRC) helpline from 10:00 to 17:00 hours (IST) at:
Charges for ‘Instant Transfer’ vary at different branches. Branches in some countries may offer the facility at concessional rates to their account holders. Please contact our branch in your Country to know the schedule of charges of ‘Instant Transfer’ for you.
Email:
ircresponse.fd@sbi.co.in
Tel:
+91-33-2288 0242
Draft / Cashier's Cheques
Cashier's Cheque / International Money Order:
Remittance by cashier's cheque or International money order, works on the same principles as a cheque drawn on a foreign bank. Please
click here
to know more about foreign currency cheques and other instruments collection policy.
Draft:
If a remittance is sent as a Demand Draft, the beneficiary can deposit it at the branch in India where either you or your beneficiary hold an account. The draft will be sent to the branch where it is payable. After collection, the proceeds will be deposited in the account. If there is a need for currency conversion, the currency conversion rate prevailing on the date of conversion is applied.
Collection charges
will be as applicable from time to time. Please
click here
to know more about foreign currency cheques and other instruments collection policy.
Foreign Currency Cheques
You can deposit personal cheques drawn on a bank abroad in foreign currency and credit the same to your account with a branch in India. The cheques are sent to the respective countries for payment and on collection of funds, the amount is deposited in your account.
Collection period
varies depending on the country, local clearing regulations and location of the bank on which the cheque is drawn.
Collection charges
are recovered as applicable from time to time. Cheques can be deposited at the branch through messenger or sent to the branch by post / courier. If the cheque amount is in foreign currency and the credit has to be offered in India rupees, the currency conversion rate prevailing on the date of conversion will be applicable. Please
click here
to know more about foreign currency cheques and other instruments collection policy.
Last Updated On : Friday, 27-12-2024