NRE / NRO account opening procedure - NRI
Account Opening Procedure
NRE / NRO savings bank account can be opened as per any of the following mode:
Through online mode: Please
click here
to fill application online and send it to Global NRI Centre in India as per the steps mentioned therein.
By visiting SBI Foreign Office or our associated Exchange House: Please
click here
to download the account opening application, fill it manually and submit it to our nearby office in your current country of residence. Please
click here
to check whether office in your country is permitted to obtain and send account opening application to branch in India or not. If it is not permitted, then they will not be able to accept the application and you have to directly post / courier it to your preferred home branch in India.
Please note that our Representative Office in UAE(i.e. Dubai and Abu Dhabi) and Global Money Exchange in Oman also offers instant NRI account facility i.e. NRE / NRO savings bank account number will be provided to customer there itself on submission of the application. Such accounts will be activated within 2-3 working days.
By sending it to SBI Branch in India: Please
click here
to download the account opening application, fill it manually and post / courier it to your preferred home branch in India, along with the attested copies of proofs & documents selected for KYC in the application. Please note that account opening applications coming through email cannot be acted upon.
By visiting a SBI Branch in India in person: Please fill and submit application along with proofs & documents selected for KYC in the application by visiting a SBI branch in India. Please ensure to carry originals of the documents / proofs for cross-verification by the branch official.
Please note: If you are maintaining a Resident Indian (domestic) account (s) with SBI, then either it needs to be converted into NRO account or to be closed down before opening a new NRE / NRO account, as an NRI cannot maintain a domestic account.
In order to convert existing domestic account to NRO account, please download a standard request letter for converting resident Indian savings bank account into NRO savings bank by clicking on ‘
For converting resident Indian savings bank account into NRO savings bank account on change of residential status’
from Download Forms and post / courier it to your home branch along with supporting documents mentioned in the letter. Please note that such request coming through email cannot be acted upon, due to security reasons. Please also note that:
No conversion charges will be levied for conversion
No loss of interest (but no senior citizen benefit, in case you are getting some senior citizen interest benefit)
Taxation will be as applicable on NRO deposits
Last Updated On : Thursday, 11-07-2024