Collateral free, guarantor free education loans to students securing admission in QHEIs identified by Department of Higher Education
(Click here for List of QHEIs)
No Processing Fee
Margin
Loan Amount
Margin
Loans upto ₹ 4.00 lakh
Nil
Loans from ₹ 4.00 lakh to ₹ 7.50 lakh
5%
Loans above ₹ 7.50 lakh
Nil
Courses Covered
All the Graduation/Post Graduation degree and diploma courses offered by QHEIs are eligible.
(Indian campus of foreign education institutions, foreign campus of Indian education institutions and foreign education institutions will not be covered.)
Interest Subvention:
Annual family* income
Interest subvention
Technical / Professional courses
Other courses
Upto ₹4.50 lakh
100% interest subvention(PM-USP CSIS)
3% interest subvention(PM-Vidyalaxmi)
Above ₹4.50 lakh to ₹8 lakh
3% interest subvention(PM-Vidyalaxmi)
3% interest subvention(PM-Vidyalaxmi)
Moratorium:
Course period + 1 year
Credit Guarantee:
75% Credit guarantee for loan limits up to ₹7.50 lakh (existing scheme to continue)
Pre-payment charges:
Nil
Quick sanction at Designated Campus Branch or place of residence
Please click here for Rate of interest
FAQ on PM-Vidyalaxmi
Should be an Indian National
Students of all income groups are eligible for this loan.
Students admitted through open competitive examinations / merit-based admissions are eligible.
To be applied through PM-Vidyalaxmi Portal.
Co-borrower is mandatory for all loans above ₹ 75.00 Lakh in all variants of PM-Vidyalaxmi schemes like Utkarsh, Uttam and Uday.
Co-applicant is mandatory in case of minor students, irrespective of the loan amount.
Checklist for Education Loan
Forms
Loan Application Form
Asset-Liability Statement of applicant/Co-applicant / Guarantor (Applicable for loans above Rs 7.50 lacs)
KYC Documents
Applicant with KYC compliant account with SBI
New Customer/ KYC non-compliant account with SBI
No fresh KYC document is required.
Proof of Identity (Anyone): PAN/ Passport/ Driver’s License/ Voter ID card/Proof of possession of Aadhar Number.
Address proof to be provided in case of change of address.
PAN is mandatory if not available in system.
PAN is mandatory if not available in your account
Proof of Residence/ Address (Anyone): Recent copy of Telephone Bill/ ElectricityProof of possession of Aadhar Number.
AADHAR to be updated for any application for subsidy schemes of government.
AADHAR to be updated for any application for subsidy schemes of government.
Passport is mandatory for students for Studies Abroad, to be provided in case of non-availability in Bank’s record.
Passport is mandatory for students for Studies Abroad, to be provided in case of non-availability in Bank’s record.
Student Academic details
Mark sheet of 10th, 12th, Graduation (if applicable), Entrance Exam Result
Proof of admission to course [Offer Letter/ Admission Letter/ ID card if available]
Schedule of expenses for course
Copies of letter conferring scholarship, free-ship, etc. (if any)
Gap certificate, if applicable
Income Proof for Co-applicant/ Guarantor
Salaried
Non-Salaried
Latest Salary Slip or Salary Certificate
Business address proof
Copy of latest Form 16 or IT Returns (ITR V)
Latest IT returns
Account Statement
Last 6 months Bank Account Statements for all Bank Accounts held by the applicant/s
Security
Immovable Security (Land/Building):
Movable Security
Permission for construction (where applicable)
Bank Deposit (TDR/ STDR/ RD),
Copy of non-agriculture land permission
Insurance Policy (SBI Life/ LIC),
Copy of Sale Deed and other documents of title to property in respect of immovable property
Govt Securities/Bond issued by PSUs,
Share Certificate (only for Maharashtra), Maintenance Bill, Electricity Bill, Property Tax Receipt
Mutual Fund schemes of SBI MF (FMP / DAF)
Approved Plan copy (Xerox Blueprint) & Registered Development Agreement of the builder, Conveyance Deed (For New Property)
FCNR deposits.
Any other document required to establish the chain of title
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 10-06-2026