The State Bank Achiever Card is a reloadable Prepaid Card usable at Merchant establishments/ Point of Sale through or for online transactions in India only, Cash withdrawal is not allowed. It is an ideal product for disbursement of various periodical non cash incentive/payment to employees, agents, distributors etc. State Bank Achiever Card can be purchased by customers/ non customers; no prior Banking Relationship is required.
Features
All State Bank of India Branches
Minimum amount of issue Rs 100 and thereafter in multiples of Re 1/-. However, the balance in the card should not exceed Rs 2,00,000/- at any point of time.
Usage : State Bank Achiever Card is usable at all merchant establishments at point of sale and over internet for e-commerce transactions by using secure verified by VISA.
Balance enquiry : Cardholder can view the balance in the State Bank Achiever Card and also obtain a transaction receipt indicating the balance from any State Bank ATM in India free of cost and also online at
https://prepaid.sbi.bank.in
(VISA)
The validity of the card is for 10 years from the date of issue.
Daily transaction limit : Cash withdrawal not allowed.
Daily transaction limit : POS transaction and e-commerce limit is upto the balance available in the card.
The card can also be personalized upon request by the Corporates for Bulk issue.
Issuance and replacement fee EMV – Chip: Rs. 150/- + GST
Reload fee: Rs.10+ GST per transaction.
If loaded through RINB/CINB: – NIL charges
Cash withdrawal from other bank ATM - fee: - Rs. 20 + GST
Enquiry at other Bank ATM – fee: - Rs. 9/- + GST
Download manual for one view prepaid card
Eligibility
The customer/corporate needs to provide the following documents for purchasing a State Bank Achiever Card
Dully Filled in Application.
Proof of Identity such as passport, voter ID card, PAN Card etc.
Proof of Residence such as Pass port, driving license etc.
Reload
State Bank Achiever Card is reloadable and can be re-loaded any number of times till expiry. Periodical non cash allowances which are regular in nature, can be credited into these Cards.
Minimum reload Rs.100 per reload
No Maximum stipulation but at any point of time card balance should not exceed Rs.1, 00,000/- .
Last Updated On : Tuesday, 09-06-2026