Features
Minimum Loan Amount per individual: Rs 20,000/-
Maximum Loan per individual : Rs 20.00 lacs per individual
Margin : 35% of Market Value of SGBs
Type of Facility : Overdraft & Demand Loan.
Interest Rate :
Refer to the Interest Rate page
Tenor
Overdraft : 36 months,
Demand Loan : 12 months
Processing Fee : 0.50% of the Loan amount + applicable Service Tax or Rs 500 + applicable Tax, whichever is higher.
Interest to be serviced monthly.
Principal to be repaid on or before the end of the term.
Demand Loan : (Bullet-Repayment) Interest & Principal to be repaid on or before the end of the term.
Eligibility
All individual or joint investors (age above 21 years) under Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme holding the SGBs.
Physical form: Must be issued through our Bank.
Demat Form: The customer(s) must have demat account with SSL.
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Which are the purposes for which Loan against Sovereign Gold Bond (SGB) can be availed?
a) SBI Loan against Sovereign Gold Bond is a general-purpose Loan scheme available to individuals, against security of Sovereign Gold Bonds (SGBs) issued by Reserve Bank of India.
b) It can be taken for meeting expenses of sudden medical exigency, margin money for Home Loan/ Car Loan/ Education Loan, travel plans etc. c) However, loan will not be sanctioned for speculative purposes.
2. How much time Bank takes to sanction Loan against Sovereign Gold Bond (SGB)?
Loan is normally sanctioned on the same day of application and loan amount is credited to customer’s account.
3. I am not an existing customer of SBI, can I apply for Loan against Sovereign Gold Bond (SGB)?
No. You can apply for Loan against SGB at SBI only if SGB (in physical form) has been purchased through an SBI branch.
If your SGB is in demat form and you have a demat account with SBI Capital securities Ltd (SSL), then after opening a Saving Account with SBI, you may avail this loan.
4. Who is eligible for SBI Loan against SGB?
Anyone above 21 years of age with steady source of income.
5. Is Submission of proof of income by Borrower necessary?
No, it is not necessary, but she/he should have the capacity to service the interest and repay the loan.
6. Which documents are required for availing Loan against SGB?
a) Two Passport Size Photographs.
b) ID proof (Aadhar Card/ Voter Identity Card /Driving License)
c) Address Proof (Aadhar Card/ Voter Identity Card /Driving License)
7. What is the minimum & maximum loan amount that can be availed?
Minimum Loan amount is Rs. 20,000 and maximum is Rs. 20 lacs per individual.
8. What are the processing charges?
0.50 % of the loan amount + applicable taxes or Rs. 500/- + applicable tax, whichever is higher.
9. What is the repayment period of the loan?
For Overdraft – 36 Months
For Demand Loan - 12 Months
10. How can I repay my loan against SGB?
In Overdraft account, customers have to pay monthly interest applied in the loan account.
Demand loan is payable at the end of the term (Total principal plus accrued interest).
11. What is the Interest Rate?
Interest rate wef 15.08.2023 is 10.95% p.a.
Please note that Interest Rate is subject to change as per Bank’s policy.
12. How much margin is required to take SBI Loan against SGB?
Margin of 35% is to be maintained for loans against SGB. Market value of per gram gold is published monthly by Precious Metals Department, PBBU for this purpose.
13. Can I avail loan against SGBs sold by other Private/Nationalized Banks?
No
14. If I have availed one Loan against SGB, can I apply for second loan?
Yes, you can avail additional loans up to maximum loan amount of Rs 20.00 lacs.
15. Whether NRI customer is eligible to avail loan against SGB?
No
16. Is there any pre-payment penalty on Loan against SGBs?
No, there is no prepayment penalty.
17. Are there any foreclosure charges on Loan against SGBs?
No. Loan can be closed at any point of time without any foreclosure charges
18. Can I apply for loan against SGBs at any branch?
No. The Loan can be applied for only at that branch from where SGB was purchased by the customer.
* T & C applies. For any further query, please feel free to write to agm5.pbpl@sbi.co.in/ dgmecom.pbbu@sbi.co.in
Alternatively, for assistance, you may call at 1800 1234 also.
Last Updated On : Saturday, 07-02-2026