About SBI GOSMART AGRA METRO CARD
State Bank of India and Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) introduces to you GOSMART Agra Metro Card. GOSMART Agra Metro Card is a contactless dual interface (EMV chip based) prepaid card with stored value functionality for providing a safe, secure, and seamless way of payment. Apart from a simple way to pay fares in the National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) enabled multiple modes in transit like Metro Rails, Buses etc. This card offers extended usage for retail payments as well as e-Commerce*. The card has separate compartments for storing amount for different utilities, the amount stored at card’s chip which is transit balance (global/offline balance) will be used for transit (travel) which is a unique feature of this Card, while amount stored at card’s host (Retail Balance/online balance) can be used for utilities such as retail transactions, ATM cash withdrawals* etc *based on the facility as and when available by the bank with respect to the KYC status of the card
State Bank GOSMART Agra Metro Card offers many exciting features and a host of benefits for all your payment needs
Cashless travels in Metros
Purchase tickets for your metro travel needs.
Chip-protection to ensure better security for your card.
Easy to use Tap-and-Pay functionality.
Minimum Top-up Amount
Rs.100/- (Initial top-up must be a minimum of Rs. 100/- and in multiples of Rs. 100/- thereafter). Top-Up can be done at Metro station or at Customer portal
https://prepaid.sbi.bank.in
Maximum Top-up Amount and Total Chip Balance Limit
Rs. 2000/-
Applicable charges for the SBI GOSMART Agra Metro Card would be as mentioned below:
Card Issuance Fee
Rs. 100/-
Card Replacement Charges
Rs. 100/-
Annual Maintenance Charges
Rs. 25/-
Reload and top-up fee
1.8% or 12/- Rupees whichever is less.
Q. What is SBI - GOSMART Agra Metro Card?
Ans. This is a State Bank of India and Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) co-branded prepaid card, having a contactless dual interface (EMV chip), with stored value functionality for making Tap-and-Go payments at UPMRC Metro Stations and NCMC enabled transit projects.
Q. How can I get GOSMART Agra Metro Card?
Ans
. To get GOSMART Agra Metro Card you just have to follow the below mentioned simple steps:
Visit your nearest UPMRC Agra Metro station and request for the GOSMART Agra Metro Card at the Ticket Counter.
Fill your details in the simple Application Form and submit it to the operator.
After entering the details by the operator, One Time Pin (OTP) will be generated and sent to your mobile number provided in the application.
After OTP validation, pay the top-up amount to load balance on the card for usage.
Even you can fill required details in the webpage
https://prepaid.sbi.bank.in/web/#/apply-card
& note down reference number.
Give the reference number to ticket operator to get your GOSMART Agra Metro Card.
Q. What are the documents required for getting the card issued?
Ans. For getting the card issued, you are required to visit your nearest UPMRC Agra Metro station and provide a self-declaration of one of the following OVD (Officially Valid Document) Number:
Passport Number
Voter ID Number
Driving License Number
NREGA Job-card Number
Letter issued by the National Population Register, containing details of Name, Address, or Any other document as notified by the Central Government in consultation with the Regulator.
Proof of possession of Aadhaar number
Q. How can I use my GOSMART Agra Metro Card at UPMRC Metro stations?
Ans
. GOSMART Agra Metro Card has a unique feature of Stored Value balance which can be used across UPMRC stations. Transactions in off-line mode are executed from the Stored Value balance in the card. Step-by-step procedure to be followed for using GOSMART Agra Metro Card for Metro rides is as under:
Visit your nearest UPMRC Metro Station. Tap the card at the Entry Gate and as the gate opens, proceed to the platform for boarding the metro train.
After completing the journey, tap the card again at the Exit Gate of destination station.
The fare amount for the journey undertaken will be debited from the stored value balance on the card.
Also, passes can be loaded on the specified service area onto the card, as per the business rule of the Metro authorities and can be used for metro rides as above. While travelling by using a pass, the fare amount for the journey will not be deducted if the pass is valid; the value of pass shall be recovered upfront.
Q. How do I check the balance available on my Metro Card?
Ans. Visit your nearest UPMRC Metro Station and tap your GOSMART Agra Metro card on the Ticket Readers (TRs) installed at metro stations. Information regarding the card balance will be displayed on the screen.
Q. How can I top-up my card? What is the Maximum and Minimum limit for topping up of card?
At UPMRC Metro Stations: You can top-up/recharge your card by paying in cash or by using debit/credit card at any of the UPMRC Metro Stations.
Through Online Channel: You can also top-up your card online by visiting the customer portal at
https://prepaid.sbi.bank.in
Minimum Top-up Amount is Rs. 100/- and Maximum Limit Rs. 2000/-
Q. What is threshold limit for Global (chip/offline) Balance on the card?
Ans. The threshold limit for Global Balance on the card is a maximum of ₹2000 (Rupees Two Thousand Only).
Q. What should I do if my card is Stolen, Lost or Damaged?
Ans. If your card is lost, stolen or damaged, please follow the below mentioned steps:
Customers can block the card on Customer portal i.e.
https://prepaid.sbi.bank.in
wherein customer can login using his/her credentials.
Report the information immediately at TOM Counter/Customer Portal or SBI Contact Centre 1800-1234 (toll free) and report the loss of card. The contact centre executive will ask for identification details, e.g. Card Number, Mobile Number, date of birth, etc. On receipt of the information, your card will be blocked. A ticket number will be sent to your registered mobile number after blocking the card.
Visit your nearest UPMRC Agra Metro station for Card Replacement and submit a simple replacement form for the same. After ensuring that your previous card has been blocked, a fresh replacement card will be issued to you.
In case of card not present scenario during replacement, global balance (offline/stored value balance) will not betransferred to the new card.
Q. Where should I contact in case of any issues or grievances related to my GOSMART Agra Metro Card?
Ans. You may call Customer Care on 1800-1234 in case of any grievances related to GOSMART Agra Metro Card. Alternatively, you can also email at contactcentre@sbi.co.in, or visit nearest UPMRC Agra Metro Station
Last Updated On : Monday, 01-12-2025