Enjoy the convenience of cashless shopping with SBI Global International Contactless Debit Card and earn SBI Rewardz points on your purchases. You can use it to purchase goods at merchant establishments, for making payment online and withdraw cash in India as well as across the globe. SBI Global Contactless Debit Card comes with an EMV Chip which provides additional security.
A customer can make electronic payments by just waving the contactless card near the PoS terminal without any need for dipping or swiping the Card on PoS, thereby the Debit card will always be in the customer’s custody.
SBI Global International Debit Card
(Available on RuPay / MasterCard / VISA)
For shopping at over 52 Lakh merchant outlets in India, and over 30 million worldwide.
For booking movie tickets, bill payments, travel and other online purchases and payments over the internet.
For withdrawing cash from SBI ATMs or other ATMs in India and worldwide
Safe online shopping and e-commerce transactions
The PIN will not be prompted if the NFC enabled Card is being used at NFC terminal for transaction up to ₹5000/-. Maximum such five contactless transactions without PIN are permitted per day.
SBI Rewardz
Earn up to 10,000 SBI Reward Points every month with a cap of Rs. 1,000/- per transaction.
Standard Reward:
Earn 2 Reward Points per Rs.200 spent with your SBI Global International Debit Card, online or in-store, on shopping, dining out, fuel, travel and more.
Activation Bonus:
Earn up to 300 Bonus Reward Points on making 3 payments with your new SBI Gold International Debit Card, online or in-store, within 2 months of issuance with minimum transaction of Rs.2000/-
1st Use- 50
2nd Use- 100
3rd Use -150
Milestone Bonus:
Earn 1,000 Bonus Reward Points on PoS and E-comm spends of ₹1 lakh or more in a month. (Spends on MCC-6540 excluded)
Birthday Bonus:
Earn 2x Reward Points on spends made with your Debit Card during your birthday month.
International Payments:
Earn 2x Reward Points on international spending, online or in-store.
Partner Brands:
Earn extra Reward Points on every purchase at Loyalty program partner brands, online, in-store and via SBI Rewardz.
Redeem Reward Points: You can redeem your SBI reward point through our website "rewardz.sbi", SBI REWARDZ App, Yono App and RINB.
Recharge & Bill Payments:
No matter your monthly bill - mobile recharge, DTH, electricity, gas or FASTag, pay through Bharat Bill Pay with your Reward Points and save every month.
Movie Tickets:
Cinema just got more special! Redeem your Reward Points on Book My Show and save on every movie ticket.
Merchandise & E-vouchers:
Explore and save on a range of home & kitchenware, décor, electronics, pooja items, gifting options and more fun shopping.
Travel:
Save on every flight, bus, and hotel booking by redeeming your Reward Points.
Compare & fly for great deals.
No convenience fee.
Partner Brands:
Redeem Reward Points on every purchase at Loyalty Program partner brands, online, in-store and via SBI Rewardz.
Daily Cash Withdrawal & Transaction Limit
SBI Global International Debit Card
Domestic
International
Daily Cash Limit at ATMs
Minimum
Rs. 100/-
Varies from ATM to ATM
Maximum
Rs. 40,000/-
Varies from country to country, subject to a maximum of foreign currency equivalent of Rs. 40,000/-
Daily Point of Sales/ Online Transaction Limit
Minimum
No such limit
No such limit but subject to local regulations.
Maximum
Rs. 75,000/-
PoS Transaction Limit:
Varies from country to country, subject to a maximum of foreign currency equivalent of Rs. 75,000/- Online
Transaction Limit:
Maximum per transaction and per month limit of foreign currency equivalent of Rs. 50,000/-, available only at select international online websites.
SMS Alert for Better Tracking
Get instant SMS alerts all Cash withdrawal/Purchase transactions/Online transactions made on your SBI Global International Debit Card.
Click here for Debit Card related charges
For more information, contact:
SBI's 24x7 helpline through Tollfree 1800 11 2211 (BSNL/MTNL), 1800 425 3800 or Toll no. 080-26599990.
Mail at
contactcentre@sbi.co.in
Write to State Bank Contact Centre, P.O. Box No. 825, Bangalore 560 008.
Last Updated On : Thursday, 18-12-2025