RTXC is a first of its kind, fully digitized loan journey designed for customers maintaining Salary Package account with the Bank
Loans up to ₹50 lakhs can be availed instantly at your convenience on 24*7 basis
The product is available on YONO under 2 modes:
Digital Document Execution (DDE)
: Real-time sanction, digital documentation and real-time disbursement at DDE enabled States/ UTs.
Non-DDE
: Real-time sanction on YONO, document execution and single click disbursement at selected branch
Features :
Aadhaar OTP based e-sign of customer.
Step-by-Step Guided e-mail and SMS Communication System.
Digitization of entire loan documentation processes viz. loan application, loan agreement, stamping and signature at 21 DDE enabled States & 5 DDE enabled Union Territories at present.
Instant loan disbursement.
Digital Document Execution (DDE) facility is presently live at
21 States
viz. i. Andhra Pradesh, ii. Assam, iii. Chhattisgarh, iv. Goa, v. Gujarat, vi. Himachal Pradesh, vii. Jharkhand, viii. Karnataka, ix. Kerala, x. Maharashtra, xi. Manipur, xii. Meghalaya, xiii. Odisha, xiv. Punjab, xv. Rajasthan, xvi. Tamil Nadu, xvii. Telangana, xviii. Tripura, xix. Uttarakhand, xx. Uttar Pradesh, xxi. West Bengal and
5 Union Territories
viz. i. Andaman & Nicobar, ii. Delhi, iii. Jammu & Kashmir, iv. Ladakh, v. Puducherry.
Eligibility :
Salaried customers maintaining Salary Package account with the Bank
Minimum Net Monthly Income of ₹20,000/- for Government/ Defence employees and ₹25,000/- for Corporate employees
Loan Amount:
Minimum Loan amount: Rs. 1 lakh
Maximum Loan Amount: ₹ 50 lakh, subject to EMI/NMI Ratio up to 65% &
30-times NMI, whichever is lower.
Terms And Conditions:
Loan Tenure: 6 months – 84 months
Processing fee: Up to 1.50% of the Loan Amount (subject to minimum ₹1000/- & maximum ₹15000/-), plus GST
Penal Charges: In the event of default in payment of any instalment or any irregularity in the loan account, penal charges at following rate will be applicable:
Irregularity upto 60 Days: 2.40% per annum on the irregular portion for the period of irregularity.
Continuous irregular for a period beyond 60 days: 5% per annum on the irregular portion for the period of irregularity
The Loan will be repayable by way of EMIs. Standing Instruction (SI) for EMI payment will be automatically set up on Salary Package Account of the customer.
Loan Account will be closed/ pre-closed at the Home Branch/through app/portal by customer, after recovering residual dues from the Customer.
Last Updated On : Saturday, 07-03-2026