Retirement just got merrier with SBI Pension Loan. Fund your child’s marriage, buy your dream home, plan a trip or get medical aid with simple and hassle free loan and repayments.
Dial 1800-11-2211 for more information/ applying through Contact Centre
Give a Missed Call on 7208933142 or SMS “PERSONAL” on 7208933145 to get a call back from our Contact Centre
Features
Loans up to Rs.20 lakh
Low Processing Fees
No hidden costs
Quick loan processing
Easy EMIs through SI
Minimal documentation.
You can Apply at all SBI branches
Eligibility
For Central & State Government Pensioners
The pensioner should be below 76 years of age.
Pension payment order is maintained with SBI.
The pensioner to furnish an irrevocable undertaking not to amend his mandate to the Treasury during the tenure of the loan.
The Treasury to give consent in writing that it will not accept any request from the pensioner to transfer his pension payment to any other bank till a NOC is issued
All other terms and conditions of the Scheme will be applicable, including guarantee by the spouse (eligible for family pension) or by a suitable third party.
For Defence Pensioners
Pensioners of Armed Forces, including Army, Navy and Air Force, Paramilitary Forces (CRPF, CISF, BSF, ITBP, etc.), Coast Guards, Rashtriya Rifles and Assam Rifles.
Pension payment order is maintained with SBI.
No minimum age bar under the scheme.
Maximum age at the time of processing the loan should be less than 76 years.
For Family Pensioners
Family pensioners include authorized members of the family to receive pension after the death of the pensioner.
Family pensioner should not be more than 76 years of age.
Loan Repayment Period
SBI PENSION LOAN
:
Repayment Period
72 months (Loan to be repaid by 78 years of age)
JAI JAWAN PENSION LOAN:
Repayment:
In maximum 72 EMIs commencing from one month after disbursal of loan through SI, or by debit to the pension a/c for recovery of EMIs.
Maximum Age at the time of loan sanction
Maximum Repayment Period
Age at the time of full repayment
Up to 76 years
72 months
78 years
SBI PENSION LOAN SCHEME TO PENSIONERS OF PSUs
:
Repayment Period
72 months (Loan to be repaid by 78 years of age)
PENSION LOAN SCHEMES - RATE OF INTEREST (w.e.f. 15.12.2025)
(2-year MCLR @ 8.75%)
Scheme
Spread over 2-year MCLR
Effective Interest Rate #
SBI Pension Loan
2.55%
11.30%
Jai Jawan Pension Loan
2.55%
11.30%
Pension Loan to Treasury/ PSU Pensioners*
2.55% - 3.05%
11.30% - 11.80%
Pre-Approved Pension Loans (PAPNL)
2.55%
11.30%
*The Treasury/ PSU Pensioners to be charged a premium of 0.50% in case concerned Treasury/PSU (Pension Payment Authorities) do not give
consents/undertaking in writing
that it will not accept any request from the pensioner to transfer his pension payment to any other Bank/Branch till a NOC is issued by our Bank/Branch.
# Effective Interest Rate will be fixed for entire loan tenure with no reset.
Terms and conditions
EMI/NMP ratio shall not exceed 33% in all the cases for Family Pensioners
EMI/NMP ratio shall not exceed 50% in all other type of Pensioners.
Prepayment charges - 2% on prepaid amount, plus GST.
No prepayment/ foreclosure charges if the account is closed from the proceeds of a new loan account under the same scheme.
Repayment mode of the loan is furnished by Standing Instructions to debit the pension account for recovery of the EMIs.
Guarantee of loan is secured by TPG of Spouse eligible for family Pension or any other family member or a third party eligible for pension loan.
Penal Charges:
In the event of default in payment of any instalment or any irregularity in the loan account, penal charges at following rate will be applicable:
Irregularity up to 60 Days: 2.40% per annum on the irregular portion for the period of irregularity.
Continuous irregular for a period beyond 60 days: 5% per annum on the outstanding for the period of irregularity.
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 08-04-2026