A term loan granted to Indian Nationals for pursuing Skill development courses in India.
Features
Tuition / Course Fee
Examination / Library / Laboratory fee
Caution deposit
Purchase of books, equipments and instruments
Any other reasonable expenditure found necessary for completion of the Course. (As such courses are localized boarding, lodging may not be necessary. However, wherever it is found necessary, the same could be considered on merits)
Minimum Loan Amount: Rs. 5000
Maximum loan amount: Rs. 7,50,000
Click here for Interest Rate
No collateral or third party guarantee will be taken.
However, the Parent/ Guardian will execute loan documents along with the student, as joint borrower (co-borrower). Spouse will be included as co-applicant wherever applicable, in addition to Parent/ Natural Guardian.
Repayment Tenure
Loans upto Rs 50,000 : Upto 3 years
Loans between Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh Upto 5 years
Loans above Rs. 1 lakh : Upto 7 years
Courses and Institution Eligibility
Training Institutes/ Courses: Courses run by Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), Polytechnics, training partners affiliated to National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC)/ Sector Skill Councils, State Skill Mission, State Skill Corporation, preferably leading to a certificate / diploma / degree issued by such organization as per National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) are eligible for a Skilling Loan.
Schools recognized by Central or State Education Boards or Colleges affiliated to recognized university leading to a certificate / diploma / degree issued by such organization as per National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) is eligible for a Skilling Loan.
There is no minimum course duration.
Timeline for Disposal of Loan Application
Maximum 6 days, after the receipt of duly completed application with supporting documents.
The timeline start from the date of receipt of complete documents from the applicant and the time taken by the applicant for submitting documents and/ or for furnishing information sought by the Bank will not be taken into account for the purpose of timeline indicated above.
All timeline counts will be on the basis of full working days. Wherever there is a need for verification etc. with various authorities/ Govt. bodies across one or more centres, a minimum of 15 additional working days will be applicable. We shall endeavour, at all times, to deliver within the indicated timelines, barring in situations and circumstances that are beyond the control of the Bank.
Processing Fees: Nil
Margin: Nil
Moratorium Period
Courses of duration upto 1 year : 6 months from the completion of the course
Courses of duration above 1 year : 12 months from the completion of the course
Checklist for Education Loan
Forms
Loan Application Form
Asset-Liability Statement of applicant/Co-applicant / Guarantor (Applicable for loans above Rs 7.50 lacs)
KYC Documents
Applicant with KYC compliant account with SBI
New Customer/ KYC non-compliant account with SBI
No fresh KYC document is required.
Proof of Identity (Anyone): PAN/ Passport/ Driver’s License/ Voter ID card.
Address proof to be provided in case of change of address.
PAN is mandatory if not available in system.
PAN is mandatory if not available in your account
Proof of Residence/ Address (Anyone): Recent copy of Telephone Bill/ Electricity
AADHAR to be updated for any application for subsidy schemes of government.
AADHAR to be updated for any application for subsidy schemes of government.
Passport is mandatory for students for Studies Abroad, to be provided in case of non-availability in Bank’s record.
Passport is mandatory for students for Studies Abroad, to be provided in case of non-availability in Bank’s record.
Student Academic details
Mark sheet of 10th, 12th, Graduation (if applicable), Entrance Exam Result
Proof of admission to course [Offer Letter/ Admission Letter/ ID card if available]
Schedule of expenses for course
Copies of letter conferring scholarship, free-ship, etc. (if any)
Gap certificate, if applicable
Income Proof for Co-applicant/ Guarantor
Salaried
Non-Salaried
Latest Salary Slip or Salary Certificate
Business address proof
Copy of latest Form 16 or IT Returns (ITR V)
Latest IT returns
Account Statement
Last 6 months Bank Account Statements for all Bank Accounts held by the applicant/s
Security
Immovable Security (Land/Building):
Movable Security
Permission for construction (where applicable)
Bank Deposit (TDR/ STDR/ RD),
Copy of non-agriculture land permission
Insurance Policy (SBI Life/ LIC),
Copy of Sale Deed and other documents of title to property in respect of immovable property
Govt Securities/Bond issued by PSUs,
Share Certificate (only for Maharashtra), Maintenance Bill, Electricity Bill, Property Tax Receipt
Mutual Fund schemes of SBI MF (FMP / DAF)
Approved Plan copy (Xerox Blueprint) & Registered Development Agreement of the builder, Conveyance Deed (For New Property)
FCNR deposits.
Any other document required to establish the chain of title
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Monday, 09-02-2026