A term loan granted to Indian Nationals for pursuing higher education in India or abroad where admission has been secured.
Features
Loan Amount
- Studies in India
Maximum Loan limit for
Ranked Top 100 by NIRF
Other eligible institutions
Medical (MBBS / MD / MS)
Upto ₹ 75.00 lakh
Upto ₹ 50.00 lakh
All other courses including dental
Upto ₹ 50.00 lakh
Upto ₹ 30.00 lakh
Higher loan limit is considered on case-to-case basis as under:
Medical (MBBS / MD / MS)
Need based loans
Upto ₹ 1.00 crore
All other courses including dental
Upto ₹ 1.00 crore
Upto ₹ 50.00 lakh
- Studies abroad: Upto ₹7.50 lakh (Higher loan limit for Studies abroad are considered under Global Ed-vantage Scheme, maximum upto ₹ 3.00 Crores)
Repayment period of upto 15 years after Course Period + 12 months of repayment holiday*
Insurance to be obtained for loan above Rs 7.50 Lac.
Processing Charges
Loans amount upto ₹ 10 lakh: NIL
Loans amount above ₹10 lakh upto ₹20 lakh : ₹ 5,000 plus GST
Loans amount above ₹20 lakh: 0.50% of loan amount plus GST (Maximum ₹25,000/- plus GST)
Security
Upto ₹ 7.5 lakh: Only Parent/ Guardian as co-borrower. No Collateral Security or third-party guarantee
Above ₹ 7.5 lakh: Parent/ Guardian as co-borrower and tangible collateral security
Margin
Up to ₹4 lakh - Nil
Above ₹4 lakh - 5% for studies in India, 15% for studies in abroad
Repayment will commence one year after completion of course.
Loan to be repaid in 15 years after the commencement of repayment
In case second loan is availed for higher studies later, to repay the combined loan amount in 15 years after completion of second course
EMI Generation
The accrued interest during the moratorium period and course period is added to the principle and repayment is fixed in Equated Monthly Instalments (EMI).
If full interest is serviced before the commencement of repayment; EMI is fixed based on principle amount only.
Please click here for Rate of interest
Eligibility
A term loan granted to Indian Nationals for pursuing higher education in India or abroad where admission has been secured.
Courses Covered
Studies in India
Graduation, Post-graduation including regular technical and professional Degree/Diploma courses conducted by colleges/universities approved by UGC/ AICTE/IMC/Govt. etc Regular Degree/ Diploma Courses conducted by autonomous institutions like IIT, IIM etc.
Teacher training/ Nursing courses approved by Central government or the State Government
Regular Degree/Diploma Courses like Aeronautical, pilot training, shipping etc. approved by Director General of Civil Aviation/Shipping/ concerned regulatory authority b. Studies abroad:
Job oriented professional/ technical Graduation Degree courses/ Post Graduation Degree and Diploma courses like MCA, MBA, MS, etc offered by reputed universities Courses conducted by CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants) - London, CPA (Certified Public Accountant) in USA etc.
Studies abroad
Job oriented professional/ technical Graduation Degree courses/ Post Graduation Degree and Diploma courses like MCA, MBA, MS, etc offered by reputed universities.
Courses conducted by CIMA (Chartered Institute of Management Accountants) - London, CPA (Certified Public Accountant) in USA etc.
Expenses Covered
Fees payable to college/school/hostel
Examination/Library/Laboratory fees
Purchase of Books/Equipment/Instruments/Uniforms, Purchase of computers- essential for completion of the course (maximum 20% of the total tuition fees payable for completion of the course).
Caution Deposit/Building Fund/Refundable Deposit (maximum 10% of tuition fees for the entire course).
Travel Expenses/Passage money for studies abroad.
Cost of a Two-wheeler upto ₹ 50,000/-
Any other expenses required to complete the course like study tours, project work etc.
Checklist for Education Loan
Forms
Loan Application Form
Asset-Liability Statement of applicant/Co-applicant / Guarantor (Applicable for loans above Rs 7.50 lacs)
KYC Documents
Applicant with KYC compliant account with SBI
New Customer/ KYC non-compliant account with SBI
No fresh KYC document is required.
Proof of Identity (Anyone): PAN/ Passport/ Driver’s License/ Voter ID card.
Address proof to be provided in case of change of address.
PAN is mandatory if not available in system.
PAN is mandatory if not available in your account
Proof of Residence/ Address (Anyone): Recent copy of Telephone Bill/ Electricity
AADHAR to be updated for any application for subsidy schemes of government.
AADHAR to be updated for any application for subsidy schemes of government.
Passport is mandatory for students for Studies Abroad, to be provided in case of non-availability in Bank’s record.
Passport is mandatory for students for Studies Abroad, to be provided in case of non-availability in Bank’s record.
Student Academic details
Mark sheet of 10th, 12th, Graduation (if applicable), Entrance Exam Result
Proof of admission to course [Offer Letter/ Admission Letter/ ID card if available]
Schedule of expenses for course
Copies of letter conferring scholarship, free-ship, etc. (if any)
Gap certificate, if applicable
Income Proof for Co-applicant/ Guarantor
Salaried
Non-Salaried
Latest Salary Slip or Salary Certificate
Business address proof
Copy of latest Form 16 or IT Returns (ITR V)
Latest IT returns
Account Statement
Last 6 months Bank Account Statements for all Bank Accounts held by the applicant/s
Security
Immovable Security (Land/Building):
Movable Security
Permission for construction (where applicable)
Bank Deposit (TDR/ STDR/ RD),
Copy of non-agriculture land permission
Insurance Policy (SBI Life/ LIC),
Copy of Sale Deed and other documents of title to property in respect of immovable property
Govt Securities/Bond issued by PSUs,
Share Certificate (only for Maharashtra), Maintenance Bill, Electricity Bill, Property Tax Receipt
Mutual Fund schemes of SBI MF (FMP / DAF)
Approved Plan copy (Xerox Blueprint) & Registered Development Agreement of the builder, Conveyance Deed (For New Property)
FCNR deposits.
Any other document required to establish the chain of title
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Tuesday, 09-06-2026