About SBI MMRC Mumbai Metro 3 Card
State Bank of India and Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) introduces to you Mumbai Metro 3 Card.
State Bank of India - MMRC Mumbai Metro 3 Card, is a contactless dual interface (EMV chip based) prepaid card with stored value functionality for providing a safe, secure, and seamless way of payment. Apart from a simple way to pay fares in the Metro, this card offers extended usage in buses as well. Compartmentalization of amount for different utilities such as transit amongst others is a unique feature of this SBI MMRC Mumbai Metro 3 Card, which can be used for loading of passes for metro as well as buses, using the store value of the card.
SBI MMRC Mumbai Metro 3 Card offers many exciting features and a host of benefits for all your payment needs.
Cashless travels in Metros
Purchase tickets and store passes for your Metro travel needs.
Purchase tickets for the buses using the same card.
Chip-protection to ensure better security for your card.
Easy to use Tap-and-Pay functionality.
Applicable charges for the Mumbai Metro 3 Card would be as mentioned below:
Card Issuance Fee
NIL
Maximum Total Chip Balance Limit
Rs. 2000/-
Availability
Mumbai Metro Line 3 stations
Reload and top-up fee
NIL
Minimum Top-up Amount
Rs. 100 /- (Initial top-up must be a minimum of Rs. 100/- and in multiples of Rs. 100/- thereafter). TopUp can be done at Metro station or at Customer portal
https://oneview.prepaid.sbi
Usage
Currently SBI-MMRC Mumbai Metro 3 Card is usable only for transit purpose.
Annual Maintenance Charges
NIL
Card Replacement Charges
Rs. 100 /-
Q. What is SBI – MMRC MUMBAI METRO 3 Card?
Ans. This is a State Bank of India and Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) co-branded prepaid card, having a contactless dual interface (EMV chip), with stored value functionality for making Tap-and-Go payments at Mumbai Metro Line 3 Stations.
Q. How can I get MUMBAI METRO 3 Card?
Ans
. To get MUMBAI METRO 3 Card you just have to follow the below mentioned simple steps:
Visit your nearest Mumbai Metro Line 3 station and request for the MUMBAI METRO 3 Card at the counter.
Fill your details in the simple Application Form and submit it to the operator.
After entering the details by the operator, One Time Pin (OTP) will be generated and sent to your mobile number provided in the application.
After OTP validation, pay the top-up amount to load balance on the card for usage.
Q. What are the documents required for getting the card issued?
Ans
. For getting the card issued, you are required to visit your nearest Mumbai Metro Line 3 station with PAN and a self-declaration of one of the following OVD (Officially Valid Document) Number:
Passport Number
Voter ID Number
Driving License Number
NREGA Job-card Number
Letter issued by the National Population Register, containing details of Name, Address, or Any other document as notified by the Central Government in consultation with the Regulator.
Proof of possession of Aadhaar number
Q. How can I use my MUMBAI METRO 3 Card at Mumbai Metro Line 3 stations?
Ans. MUMBAI METRO 3 Card has a unique feature of Stored Value balance which can be used across Mumbai Metro Line 3 stations. Transactions in off-line mode are executed from the Stored Value balance in the card. Step-by-step procedure to be followed for using MUMBAI METRO 3 Card for Metro rides is as under:
Visit your nearest Mumbai Metro Line 3 Station. Tap the card at the Entry Gate and as the gate opens, proceed to the platform for boarding the metro.
After completing the journey, tap the card again at the Exit Gate of destination station.
The fare amount for the journey undertaken will be debited from the stored value balance on the card.
Also, passes can be loaded on the specified service area onto the card, as per the business rule of the Metro authorities and can be used for metro rides as above. While travelling by using a pass, the fare amount for the journey will not be deducted as long as the pass is valid, as the value of pass shall be recovered upfront.
Q. How do I check the balance available on my Metro Card?
Ans. Visit your nearest Mumbai Metro Line 3 Station and tap your MUMBAI METRO 3 card on the Ticket Readers (TRs) installed at metro stations. Information regarding the card balance will be displayed on the screen.
Q. How can I top-up my card? What is the Maximum and Minimum limit for topping up of card?
Ans. At Mumbai Metro Line 3 Stations: You can top-up/recharge your card by paying in cash or by using debit/credit card at any of the Mumbai Metro Line 3 Stations.
Through Online Channel: You can also top-up your card online by visiting the customer portal at
https://oneview.prepaid.sbi
Q. What is threshold limit for Global (chip/offline) Balance on the card?
Ans. The threshold limit for Global Balance on the card is a maximum of ₹2000 (Rupees Two Thousand Only).
Q. What should I do if my card is Stolen, Lost or Damaged?
Ans. If your card is lost, stolen or damaged, please follow the below mentioned steps:
Customers can block the card on Customer portal i.e
https://oneview.prepaid.sbi
wherein customer can login using his/her credentials.
Report the information immediately at TOM Counter/Customer Portal or SBI Contact Centre 1800-1234 (toll free) or landline number 080-26599990 and report the loss of card. The contact center executive will ask for identification details, e.g., Card Number, Mobile Number, date of birth, etc. On receipt of the information, your card will be blocked to ensure that it is not being used fraudulently by any unauthorized person. A ticket number will be sent to your registered mobile number after blocking the card.
Visit your nearest Mumbai Metro Line 3 station for Card Replacement and fill the replacement form for the same. After ensuring that your previous card has been blocked, a fresh replacement card will be issued to you.
In case of card not present scenario during replacement, global balance (offline/stores value balance) will not be transferred to the new card.
Q. Where should I contact in case of any issues or grievances related to my MUMBAI METRO 3 Card?
Ans. You may call Customer Care on 1800- 1234 (toll-free) or 080-26599990 in case of any grievances related to Mumbai Metro 3 Card. Alternatively, you can also email at
contactcentre@sbi.co.in
or visit nearest Mumbai Metro Line 3 Station.
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 23-07-2025