Whether it’s your wedding or a vacation, unplanned emergency or a planned purchase, get quick approval and instant disbursal with minimal documentation under SBI Personal Loan.
Dial 1800 1234 for more information/ applying through Contact Centre.
Give a Missed Call on 7208933142 or SMS “PERSONAL” on 7208933145 to get a call back from our Contact Centre.
Features
Loan up to ₹50 lakhs
Low interest rates starting from 10.00%*
Low processing charges
Minimal documentation
Zero hidden costs
No security, no guarantor
Provision for second loan
Digital Document Execution facility
Term loan facility on daily reducing balance or Overdraft facility with reducing Drawing Power
Click here for latest rate of interest
Eligibility
Employees working with
Government sector (Central Government/ State Government/ Railway/ Police/ PSU)
Defence sector (Defence/ Indian Coast Guard/ Central Armed Police)
Corporate sector
Employee should have Salary Package Account with SBI.
Click here to know more about benefits of maintaining Salary Account with SBI
Minimum Service:
Government/ Defence Sector employees: 6 months
Corporate Sector employees: 12 months
Age: 21-60 years. Loans to Government/ Defense sector employees in service & having age more than 60 years may be considered on case-to-case basis.
Minimum Net Monthly Salary:
Government/ Defence Sector employees: ₹20,000/-
Corporate Sector employees: ₹25,000/-
Loan Amount
Minimum: ₹ 1 lakh
Maximum: ₹ 50 lakh, subject to EMI/NMI Ratio upto 65% & 30-times NMI, whichever is lower
Employee should be an Indian National
Employee should have a decent Credit score, as per Bank’s internal policy
Terms and Conditions
Documents required
Permanent Account Number (PAN)
6 months’ Salary Slips
Documentary evidence for ascertaining the employment details viz. Identity Card issued by Employer/ Service Certificate/ Contract Letter/ Canteen ID.
Latest ITR/ Form 16, if applicable.
6 months’ Salary Account Statement (i.e. account statement(s) where last 6 months’ salary is credited)
KYC Documents:
Category of customers
Instructions
Existing to Bank (ETB) customers who are fully KYC compliant and where there is no change in address or other details.
No need to submit fresh set of KYC documents.
Existing to Bank (ETB) customers where there is any change in address or other details.
Need to submit only relevant documents for updation of KYC.
Existing to Bank (ETB) customers whose PAN is not seeded in CBS.
PAN to be mandatorily obtained.
Processing fee:
Up to 1.50% of the Loan Amount (subject to minimum ₹1000/- & maximum ₹15000/-), plus GST.
Defense sector employees: 100% waiver
Platinum & Rhodium variant Salary Package customers: 100% waiver
Government sector employees: 50% waiver i.e., 0.75% of the loan amount plus GST (Minimum ₹1000/- & Maximum ₹15000/-, plus GST
Customers having CIC (CIBIL) Score of >= 800: 50% waiver i.e., 0.75% of the loan amount plus GST (Minimum ₹1000/- & Maximum ₹15000/-, plus GST)
Penal Charge:
In the event of default in payment of any instalment or any irregularity in the loan account, penal charges at following rate will be applicable:
Irregularity upto 60 Days: 2.40% per annum on the irregular portion for the period of irregularity.
Continuous irregular for a period beyond 60 days: 5% per annum on the irregular portion for the period of irregularity.
Repayment period:
Minimum : 6 months
Maximum : Maximum 84 months.
Loan to be closed on or before the Date of Retirement/ Date of End of Contract/ 60 years of age, as applicable.
Prepayment charges :
Any prepayment of EMIs in full or in part and closure of account before the end of term will attract the prepayment charges of 2% of the prepaid amount
Pre-payment charges may be waived for following category of customers:
Loans of Defense sector employees, being closed after 6 months from date of sanction.
Loans of Government/ Corporate sector employees, being closed after 3 years from date of sanction, or from the proceeds of a new loan account opened under the same scheme after 6 months from date of sanction.
Loans of Platinum & Rhodium variant of Corporate Salary package customers, being closed after 6 months from date of sanction
In case of customers availing Overdraft facility,
Drawing Power (DP) on the Overdraft will be reduced on monthly basis to the extent of the principal component of the EMI so that the Overdraft is liquidated at the end of the loan tenure.
After disbursement of the loan, borrowers will be permitted to deposit surplus funds over and above the stipulated EMIs, and to transfer the surplus amounts deposited in the OD account to linked SB account, subject to availability of DP.
Repayment of EMIs will be through Standing Instructions (SI) on the Salary Package account till the outstanding in the loan account becomes nil.
SI will not be stopped in OD accounts (including loan accounts with credit balance) due to excess deposit of fund by borrowers over and above the stipulated EMIs, till drawing power and outstanding in such accounts is zero since extra fund deposited over and above drawing power can always be withdrawn by customers after full disbursement of loan amount.
No annual maintenance charges or folio charges will be applicable.
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Wednesday, 06-05-2026