About SBI - HRTC NCMC CARD
State Bank of India and Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) introduces to you HRTC NCMC Card.
HRTC NCMC Card is a contactless dual interface (EMV chip based) prepaid card with stored value functionality for providing a safe, secure, and seamless way of payment. A simple way to pay fares in the NCMC enabled Buses & Metros, this card offers extended usage in Buses of HRTC and in other transit projects across the country. Compartmentalization of amount for different utilities such as transit amongst others is a unique feature of this State Bank HRTC NCMC Card, which can be used in NCMC enabled transit projects such as Buses, Metros, Ferries and parking etc., using the store value of the card.
BENEFITS
State Bank HRTC NCMC Card offers many exciting features and a host of benefits for all your payment needs
Cashless travels in HRTC Buses
Purchase tickets for your travel needs in HRTC Buses.
Chip-protection to ensure better security for your card
Easy to use Tap-and-Pay functionality
TOP-UP/RECHARGE
Minimum Top-up Amount
100/- (Initial top-up must be a minimum of Rs. 100/- and in multiples of Rs. 100/- thereafter). Top-Up can be done at Metro station or at Customer portal
https://prepaid.sbi.bank.in
Maximum Top-up Amount and Total Chip Balance Limit
2000/-
Applicable charges for the SBI HRTC NCMC Card would be as mentioned below:
Sl No
Particulars
Fees
i
Card Issuance Fee
Rs. 100/-
ii
Card Replacement Charges
Rs. 100/-
iii
Annual Maintenance Fee of Card
NIL
Q. What is SBI - HRTC NCMC Card?
Ans. This is a State Bank of India and Himachal Road Transport Corporation co-branded prepaid card, having a contactless dual interface (EMV chip), with stored value functionality for making Tap-and-Go payments in HRTC Buses and other NCMC enabled transit projects.
Q. How can I get HRTC NCMC Card?
Ans.
To get HRTC NCMC Card you just have to follow the below mentioned simple steps:
Visit your nearest HRTC Bus station and request for the HRTC NCMC Card at the Ticket Counter.
Fill your details in the simple Application Form and submit it to the operator.
After entering the details by the operator, One Time Pin (OTP) will be generated and sent to your mobile number provided in the application.
After OTP validation, pay the top-up amount to load balance on the card for usage.
Even you can fill required details in the webpage
https://prepaid.sbi.bank.in/web/#/apply-card
and note down the reference number.
Give the reference number to ticket operator to get your HRTC NCMC Card.
Q. What are the documents required for getting the card issued?
Ans.
For getting the card issued, you are required to visit your nearest HRTC Bus station and provide a self-declaration of one of the following OVD (Officially Valid Document) Number:
Passport Number
Voter ID Number
Driving License Number
NREGA Job-card Number
Letter issued by the National Population Register, containing details of Name, Address, or Any other document as notified by the Central Government in consultation with the Regulator
Proof of possession of Aadhaar number
Q.  How can I use my HRTC NCMC Card in Buses?
Ans.
HRTC NCMC Card has a unique feature of Stored Value balance which can be used across in HRTC Buses. Transactions in off-line mode are executed from the Stored Value balance in the card. Step-by-step procedure to be followed for using HRTC NCMC Card for Bus rides is as under:
Tap the card at the device provided to the Conductor for payment of Bus fare.
The fare amount for the journey undertaken will be debited from the stored value balance on the card.
Also, passes can be loaded on the specified service area onto the card, as per the business rule of the HRTC Authorities and can be used for Bus rides as above. While travelling by using a pass, the fare amount for the journey will not be deducted as long as the pass is valid.
Q. How do I check the balance available on my HRTC NCMC Card?
Ans.Visit your nearest HRTC Bus Station and tap your HRTC NCMC Card on the device available to Operators or while travelling tap your HRTC NCMC Card at the device provided to the Conductor. Information regarding the card balance will be displayed on the screen.
Q. How can I top-up my card? What is the Maximum and Minimum limit for topping up of card?
At HRTC Bus Stations:
You can top-up/recharge your card by using UPI/debit/credit card at any of the HRTC Bus Stations.
Through Online Channel:
You can also top-up your card online by visiting the customer portal at
https://prepaid.sbi.bank.in
Bharat bill Pay System BBPS:
You can also top-up your card by using various platforms i.e. SBI Unipay, BHIM UPI, PhonePe, etc.
Minimum Top-up Amount is Rs. 100/- and Maximum Limit Rs. 2000/-
Q. What is threshold limit for Global (chip/offline) Balance on the card?
Ans.
The threshold limit for Global Balance on the card is a maximum of ₹2000 (Rupees Two Thousand Only).
Q. What should I do if my card is Stolen, Lost or Damaged?
Ans.
If your card is lost, stolen or damaged, please follow the below mentioned steps:
Customers can block the card on Customer portal i.e.
https://prepaid.sbi.bank.in
wherein customer can login using his/her credentials.
Report the information immediately at Bus Station Counter/Customer Portal or SBI Contact Centre 1800-1234 / 080-26599990 (toll free) and report the loss of card. The contact center executive will ask for identification details, e.g. Card Number, Mobile Number, date of birth, etc. On receipt of the information, your card will be blocked. A ticket number will be sent to your registered mobile number after blocking the card.
Visit your nearest HRTC Bus station for Card Replacement and submit a simple request letter for the same. After ensuring that your previous card has been blocked, a fresh replacement card will be issued to you.
In case of card not present scenario during replacement, global balance (offline/stores value balance) will not be transferred to the new card.
Q. Where should I contact in case of any issues or grievances related to my HRTC NCMC Card?
Ans.
You may call Customer Care on 1800-1234 / 080-26599990 in case of any grievances related to HRTC NCMC Card. Alternatively, you can also email at
contactcentre@sbi.co.in
, or visit nearest HRTC Bus Station.
Last Updated On : Thursday, 06-11-2025