Features
Online Loan facility made available through INB, YONO & Bank’s website.
Loan available against MF schemes of all AMCs registered with CAMs
Minimum Loan Amount : Rs 25,000/-
Maximum Loan :
(a) : Equity/ Hybrid/ ETF MF : Rs 20,00,000
(b) : Debt/ FMP MF : Rs 5,00,00,000.
Margin
(a) Equity/ Hybrid/ ETF MF : 50%
(b) Debt/ FMP MF : 25%
Interest Rates:
Click here for Interest Rates
Processing Fees : 0.50% of the loan amount + applicable GST (Min Rs 500 + applicable GST and maximum Rs 5,000 + applicable GST)
Review/Renewal Charges (Yearly) : Rs 1000 + applicable ST
In YONO / INB loan is available only against debt/equity fund
Maximum loan amount against equity if availed digitally is Rs. 10 lakhs
As of now renewal is available through physical channels
Eligibility
Individual(s) over 18 years of age.
Eligible Branches : All Branches.
To avail online loan facility:
Customer’s Savings / Current account should be in single name only.
MF holding with CAMS should be in single name only.
Bank account and MF account should have identical PAN number.
Bank account and MF account should have identical mobile number.
Bank account and MF account should have identical email id.
Joint account holders can avail loan from Branch only.
Documentation
Following documents required if loan is availed through Branch (No need for Online Loan against MF):
Application Form
Passport size photograph
Proof of Identity
Latest statement of account issued by SBI Funds Management Ltd indicating details of units held.
Investor’s request for Lien Marking
Declaration
KYC not to be submitted for existing customers. However, relevant documents if there is updation or any change from existing details need to be submitted along with application
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
SBI ONLINE LOAN AGAINST MUTUAL FUND UNITS
1. What is SBI Online Loan against Mutual Fund Units?
SBI Online Loan against Mutual Fund Units can be availed by SBI customers by pledging their MF units as security to the Bank
2. Why should I take SBI Online Loan against Mutual Fund Units?
a) In case of immediate cash requirement, this loan can be availed instantly by the customer.
b) The customers need not sell their MF units to take care of their urgent/ temporary requirements.
c) Even during the loan period, the customers will continue earning returns on their Mutual Funds.
d) As the loan is offered in the form of overdraft facility, interest is applied only on the amount utilised.
3. How can I take this Online Loan against Mutual Funds?
By following below mentioned easy steps, you may get loan in less than 10 minutes:
a) Log into your SBI INB portal or Bank’s website or YONO app.
b) Go to Loans and select “Loan against Mutual Fund Units”.
c) Confirm your credentials.
d) Select the Mutual Funds you wish to pledge.
e) Calculate your final loan amount.
f) Read & accept terms & conditions for lien marking on selected MF units through OTP.
g) Once the lien is marked in real time by CAMS, your overdraft (OD) account will be opened.
4. Which are the purposes for which Online Loan against Mutual Fund Units can be availed?
a) SBI Online Loan against Mutual Fund Units is a general-purpose loan, granted to individuals.
b) It can be taken to meet contingencies and / or any personal need.
c) However, loan will not be sanctioned for speculative purposes and not for subscribing to or boosting up the sales of another scheme of mutual funds, for the purchase of shares / debentures / bonds.
5. What are the key benefits of Online Loan against Mutual Funds?
a) Immediate sanction of loan.
b) Available against Debt/FMP/Equity Mutual Funds.
c) You need not liquidate/ sell your Mutual Funds.
d) Interest to be paid only on loan amount utilised.
e) 24X7 availability to apply for loan.
f) No need to visit branch or submit any document
6. How much time Bank takes to sanction Online Loan against Mutual Fund Units?
Loan is normally sanctioned in less than 10 minutes and an overdraft (loan) account for the customer is created with loan amount as limit.
7. I am not an existing customer of SBI, can I apply for Online Loan against Mutual Fund Units?
Yes, after opening a saving Bank account, you may apply for it.
8. Is this loan available against SBI Mutual Fund only?
No. This loan is available against 20 AMCs (MF Companies), including SBI MF who are registered with CAMS.
9. Who is eligible for Online Loan against Mutual Fund Units?
Anyone above 18 years of age with steady source of income can avail this loan, subject to following conditions:
a) Savings Bank Account with mode of operation as Single
b) Mutual Funds holding with CAMS as single.
c) Identical name and PAN number in both Bank account and MF account.
d) Your Mutual Fund company (Asset Management Company) from which you have purchased MF units, is registered with CAMS
10. How can I use my funds?
a) You can use your funds through YONO app or through your Internet Banking facility for your personal needs.
b) Cheque book facility is also available.
c) However, no ATM card would be issued.
11. What is the minimum & maximum loan amount that can be availed?
Minimum Loan amount is Rs. Rs 25,000
Maximum is in cases of: (a) Equity/ Hybrid/ ETF MF:  Rs 10 lacs
(b) Debt/ FMP MF: Rs 5 crore
12. How much is the processing charge?
0.50% of the Loan Amount + applicable GST
(Minimum Rs 1,000 and Maximum: Rs 10,000 +applicable GST)
13. What is the maximum period for which I can avail the loan?
12 months
14. Can I renew my loan account after the loan period is over?
Yes, you will have the option to renew your account for further 12 months, by paying a nominal renewal charge.
15. How can I repay my loan against Online Loan against Mutual Fund Units?
You must service/pay monthly interest as & when applied.
Principal is to be repaid on or before the end of the loan tenure.
You shall also ensure that you conduct regular transactions in the account.
16. What is the Interest Rate?
a) Interest rate wef 01.04.2025 is 11.50% p.a.(250 bps above 1-year MCLR)
b) It is on floating basis with 1 year reset period.
c) Please note that Interest Rate is subject to change as per Bank’s policy.
17. How much margin is required to take Online Loan against Mutual Fund Units?
a) Equity/ Hybrid/ ETF MF: 50%
b) Debt/ FMP MF: 25%
It means that a customer can borrow up to 50% of the Net Asset Value (NAV) for Equity/ Hybrid/ ETF Mutual Funds and up to 75% for Debt/FMP Mutual Funds.
However, the margin is to be maintained throughout the tenor of loan, failing which Bank will have the option to sell/ liquidate required number of MF units to regularise the loan account.
18. Whether NRI customer is eligible to avail loan against Online Loan against Mutual Fund Units?
No
19. Is there any pre-payment penalty on Loan against Online Loan against Mutual Fund Units?
No, there is no prepayment penalty.
20. How to close my overdraft account opened through Online channel?
a) Account closure option is available in both Internet Banking facility and YONO app. However, sufficient funds must be available in your deposit account.
b) If sufficient funds are not available, please visit your Bank Branch for account closure through invocation of lien marked units.
21. What will happen if loan amount is not repaid at the end of the loan tenure?
Your lien marked MF units would be invoked / encashed by the Bank and appropriated against loan account. Remaining amount, if any, will be credited to your linked deposit account.
*Terms & conditions apply.
For any further query/ clarification, please feel free to write to agmecom.pbbu@sbi.co.in, agm5.pbpl@sbi.co.in / dgmecom.pbbu@sbi.co.in
Alternatively, for assistance, you may call at 1800 1234 also.
Apply Now
Last Updated On : Friday, 13-02-2026