Features
The account shall be opened with a minimum deposit of one thousand rupees or any sum in multiple of one thousand rupees not exceeding Rupees
Rs 30 Lakhs
w.e.f. 01.04.2023
The depositor may extend the account for a further period of three years after the maturity period of five years.
The deposit made under these rules shall bear interest as directed by Govt of India from time to time quarterly.  At present it is
8.20%
per annum with effect from 01.04.2023.
If the interest payable every quarter is not claimed by an account holder, such interest shall not earn additional interest.
The whole amount of deposit in a joint account shall be attributable to the first account holder only.
Both the spouses can open single account and joint accounts with each other.
The depositor may nominate a person or more than one person.
Nomination made by the depositor can be cancelled or varied.
The deposit made at the time of opening of the account shall be paid on or after the expiry of five years or after the expiry of eight years where the account was extended from the date of the opening of the account.
Multiple withdrawals from an account shall not be permitted.
SCSS Forms(Hindi and English)
SCSS forms in Assamese
SCSS forms in Bengali
SCSS forms in Gujarati
SCSS forms in Kannada
SCSS forms in Kashmiri
SCSS forms in Malyalam
SCSS forms in Manipuri
SCSS forms in Marathi
SCSS forms in Odia
SCSS forms in Punjabi
SCSS forms in Telugu
SCSS forms in Tamil
SCSS forms in Urdu
Eligibility
An individual may open an account in individual capacity, or jointly with spouse.
NRI's & Hindu Undivided Family are not eligible to open an account under these rules.
An individual who has attained the age of 60 years and above.
who has attained the age of 55 years or more but less than 60 years and who has retired on superannuation or otherwise on the date of opening an account.
The retired personnel of Defence Services attaining the age of fifty years.
Premature closure of Account
Premature Payment Permitted at any time after opening the account but with penalty.
FAQ SCSS
Last Updated On : Saturday, 07-02-2026