The State Bank eZ-Pay Card,
a Prepaid plastic Card issued in Indian Rupees in association with VISA International, is an ideal product for making periodical payments. Payment of salaries to employees, who are required to work at different locations, is generally a difficult proposition for employers. Cards can be loaded from a single point and the funds are available to the employees immediately. It is suitable for
Disbursement of wages to blue collar workers,
Bonus to employees/ reimbursement of expenses to staff,
Periodical payment of incentives to agents/ commission to distributors.
One need not be SBI account holder for purchasing State Bank eZ-Pay Card. Any person, in individual capacity also, can obtain eZ-Pay Card. The SBI eZ-Pay Card is usable at all State Bank ATMs through PIN, at Merchant Establishments through by signature and over Internet for e-Commerce transactions by using secure
Verified by Visa
. The cardholder need not visit any Branch to withdraw his money. Balance enquiry can be made free of charge either through State Bank ATMs or through Internet.
Features
All State Bank of India Branches
State Bank eZ-Pay Card is reloadable
Minimum Amount of issue Rs. 100 and thereafter in multiples of Re. 1/-. However, the balance in the Card should not exceed Rs. 2,00,000/- at any point of time.
Cash withdrawal through Point of Sale (PoS) terminal Rs. 2,000/- per transaction with an overall monthly limit of Rs.10,000/- across all the locations (Tier 1 to Tier 6 centres).
State Bank eZ-Pay Card is usable at all State Bank ATMs through PIN, at VISA enabled Merchant Establishments at Point of Sale and over Internet for e-Commerce transactions by using secure Verified by Visa
.
Reload fee Rs. 10/- + GST
Cardholder can view the balance in the State Bank eZ-Pay Card and also obtain a transaction receipt indicating the balance from any State Bank Group ATM in India free of cost and also online at
https://prepaid.sbi.bank.in
The validity of the card is for 10 year from the date of issue.
Cash withdrawal from ATM upto Rs 40,000/- per day.
POS transaction and e-commerce limit is upto the balance available in the card.
The Card can also be personalized, upon request by the Corporates for Bulk Issue.
Issuance and replacement fee (EMV – Chip): - Rs. 150/- + GST
Reload fee: - Rs.10 + GST per transaction.
If loaded through RINB/CINB – NIL charges.
Cash withdrawal from other bank ATM fee: - Rs. 20 + GST
Enquiry at other Bank ATM fee: - Rs. 9/- + GST
Download Manual for One View Portal
Eligibility
Individuals
Can be issued to individuals after taking full KYC documents. These individual Cards can be loaded/ reloaded by debit to third party accounts of Corporates/customers.
Corporates
Corporate Cards (cards both personalised & non-personalised, which can be issued in bulk to corporate clients for onward issuance to their employees at their end) can be issued to employees/beneficiaries of listed company only. Corporates have to submit KYC documents of beneficiaries before loading/activating the Cards for use.
Last Updated On : Tuesday, 09-06-2026