SBI My Card International Debit Card gives you the freedom to reflect your unique personality and style. Simply choose from wide range of vibrant and captivating images from our Gallery to customize your contactless Debit Card & enjoy the convenience of cashless shopping with SBI My Card International Debit Card and earn Freedom Rewardz points on your purchases. With your SBI My Card International Debit Card you get access to your account whenever and wherever you want. You can use it to purchase goods at merchant establishments, for making payment online and withdraw cash in India as well as across the globe. SBI My Card International Debit Card comes with an EMV Chip which provides additional security. To apply for your SBI My Card International Debit Card, please Login to Internet Banking >> e-Services >> ATM Card Services >> Request ATM/Debit Card >> My Card, and follow the instructions.
Features
Use of SBI My Card International Debit Card
For shopping at over 6 Lakh merchant outlets in India, and over 30 million worldwide.
For booking movie tickets, bill payments, travel and other online purchases and payments over the internet.
For withdrawing cash from SBI ATMs or other ATMs in India and worldwide (ATMs with MasterCard/Maestro/Visa logo).
Daily Cash Withdrawal & Transaction Limit
SBI My Card International Debit Card
Domestic
International
Daily Cash Limit at ATMs
Minimum
Rs. 100/-
Varies from ATM to ATM
Maximum
Rs. 40,000/-
Varies from country to country, subject to a maximum of foreign currency equivalent of Rs. 40,000/-
Daily Point of Sales/ Online Transaction Limit
Minimum
No such limit
No such limit but subject to local regulations.
Maximum
Rs. 75,000/-
PoS Transaction Limit :
Varies from country to country, subject to a maximum of foreign currency equivalent of Rs. 75,000/-
Online Transaction Limit :
Maximum per transaction and per month limit of foreign currency equivalent of Rs. 50,000/-, available only at select international online websites.
SMS Alert for Better Tracking
Get instant SMS alerts all Cash withdrawal/Purchase transactions/Online transactions made on your SBI My Card Debit Card.
Click here for Debit Card related charges
For more information, contact :
24x7 helpline no. 080-26599990 or tollfree nos. 1800 11 2211/1800 425 3800
Mail at contactcentre@sbi.co.in
State Bank Debit Card Loyalty Program:
Earn up to 10,000 SBI Reward Points every month with a cap of Rs. 1,000/- per transaction.
Standard Reward:
Earn 2 Reward Points per Rs.200 spent with your SBI My Card International Debit Card, online or in-store, on shopping, dining out, fuel, travel and more.
Activation Bonus:
: Earn up to 300 Bonus Reward Points on making 3 payments with your new SBI My Card International Debit Card, online or in-store, within 2 months of issuance with minimum transaction of Rs.2000/-
1st Use- 50
2nd Use- 100
3rd Use -150
Milestone Bonus:
Earn 1,000 Bonus Reward Points on PoS and E-comm spends of ₹1 lakh or more in a month. (Spends on MCC-6540 excluded)
Birthday Bonus:
Earn 2x Reward Points on spends made with your Debit Card during your birthday month.
International Payments:
Earn 2x Reward Points on international spending, online or in-store.
Partner Brands:
Earn extra Reward Points on every purchase at Loyalty program partner brands, online, in-store and via SBI Rewardz.
Redeem Reward Points: You can redeem your SBI reward point through our website "rewardz.sbi", SBI REWARDZ App, Yono App and RINB.
Recharge & Bill Payments:
No matter your monthly bill - mobile recharge, DTH, electricity, gas or FASTag, pay through Bharat Bill Pay with your Reward Points and save every month.
Movie Tickets:
Cinema just got more special! Redeem your Reward Points on Book My Show and save on every movie ticket.
Merchandise & E-vouchers:
Explore and save on a range of home & kitchenware, décor, electronics, pooja items, gifting options and more fun shopping.
Travel:
Save on every flight, bus, and hotel booking by redeeming your Reward Points.
Compare & fly for great deals.
No convenience fee.
Partner Brands:
Redeem Reward Points on every purchase at Loyalty Program partner brands, online, in-store and via SBI Rewardz.
Last Updated On : Thursday, 18-12-2025