Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs) vide their E-Gazette Notification dated 12th Dec,2019,G.S.R. 913(E),has notified that Central Govt. rescinds the Public Provident Fund Scheme-1968 published vide G.S.R.1136(E) dated 15th June,1968 with immediate effect .Further, Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs) vide their E-Gazette Notification dated 12th Dec,2019, G.S.R. 915(E), has notified a scheme called the Public Provident Fund Scheme-2019.The Scheme offers an investment avenue with decent returns coupled with income tax benefits. Salient features of the Scheme are as follows
Nomination
Offline (
Click here to download
)
(To be submitted at Home Branch)
Online Retail Internet Banking (https://www.onlinesbi.sbi)
(Menu Navigation “Home Page→Request & Enquiries→Online Nomination”)
Rules
Features
Investment Limits A minimum of Rs.500.00 subject to a maximum of Rs.1,50,000 per annum may be deposited.
Original duration is 15 years. Thereafter, on application by the subscriber, it can be extended for 1 or more blocks of 5 years each.
The rate of interest is determined by Central Govt. on quarterly basis. At present it is 7.10% per annum with effect from 01.04.2020.
Loans and withdrawals are permitted depending upon the age of the account and balances as on the specified dates.
Income Tax benefits are available under Sec 88 of IT Act.
Nomination facility is available in the name of one or more persons. The shares of nominees may also be defined by the subscriber.
The account can be transferred to other branches/ other banks or Post Offices and vice versa upon request by the subscriber. The service is free of charges.
PPF Forms(Hindi and English)
PPF Forms in Assamese
PPF Forms in Bengali
PPF Forms in Gujarati
PPF Forms in Kannada
PPF Forms in Kashmiri
PPF Forms in Malyalam
PPF Forms in Manipuri
PPF Forms in Marathi
PPF Forms in Odia
PPF Forms in Punjabi
PPF Forms in Tamil
PPF Forms in Telugu
PPF Forms in Urdu
Eligibility
Individuals in their own name as well as on behalf of a minor or a person of unsound mind can open the account at any Branch.
Terms & Conditions
The subscriber should not deposit more than Rs.1,50,000 per annum as the excess amount will neither earn any interest nor will be eligible for rebate under Income Tax Act. The amount can be deposited in lump sum or in installments.
Interest is calculated on the minimum balance( in PPF Account) between 5th day and end of the month and is paid on 31st March every year
Interest income is totally exempt from Income Tax. Amount outstanding to the credit is fully exempted from Wealth Tax also.
An account holder shall be allowed premature closure of his account or the account of a minor or person of unsound mind of whom is the guardian on an application to the accounts office in Form-5, on any of the following grounds, namely
i) treatment of life threatening disease of the account holder, his spouse or dependent children or parents, on production of supporting documents and medical reports confirming such disease from treating medical authority
ii) higher education of the account holder, or dependent children on production of documents and fee bills in confirmation of admission in a recognised institute of higher education in India or abroad
iii) on change in residency status of the account holder on production of copy of Passport and visa or Income tax return.
Disclaimer
PPF ( Revised Scheme)2019 and other Small Savings schemes are implemented by National Savings Institute, under Ministry of Finance. Patrons are requested to visit their site for latest instructions regarding these schemes.
FAQ PPF
Last Updated On : Saturday, 07-02-2026