BSBD account -Branch Channel (Product Code-1011-1701) can be opened by any individual provided he/she has valid KYC documents. Primarily meant for poorer sections of society to encourage them to start saving without any burden of charges or fees.
Available at all branches
Minimum Average Balance (MAB): NIL
Minimum balance amount Nil
Maximum balance /amount No upper limit
One Cheque Book of 25 leaves to be issued free per year to eligible BSBD account holders
Digital Banking facilities is available for BSBD Account-Branch Channel for digital onboarding (login and registration on YONO).
Basic RuPay Card facility is available to eligible customers
No limit on number and value of deposits that can be made in a month.
All individuals having valid KYC documents and not having any BSBD accounts are eligible to open BSBD Account. Existing BSBD accounts are not eligible to open another BSBD account.
Singly, jointly, or with Either or Survivor, Former or Survivor, anyone or Survivor etc. facility.
The account will be KYC compliant.
Most Important Terms & Conditions
The holder of a BSBD account shall not be eligible to open another BSBD account in the same bank or any other bank. Accordingly, before opening a new BSBD account or converting an existing savings bank account to a BSBD account, a declaration from the customer to be obtained that he / she does not have a BSBD account in any bank.
Basic RuPay ATM-cum-Debit card will be issued free of cost and no annual maintenance charge will be applied.
Deposit/ collection of cheques drawn by Central/State Government will be free
No charge on activation of inoperative accounts
No account closure charges.
Minimum of four free withdrawals, including transfers and ATM transactions (done either at the bank’s own ATM or another bank’s ATM), in a month.
Digital payment transactions excluding ATM transactions, i.e., Point of Sale transfers, NEFT, RTGS, UPI, IMPS, etc., shall not be counted as withdrawals for this purpose.
Last Updated On : Friday, 10-04-2026