Features
Programme
: Software Factory Department of Global IT Centre of State Bank of India, invites applications from final year students from recognized and reputed academic institutes to work on innovative business ideas/ practices. The programme is open for the final year students where the post graduate specialization is at least a full-time 2-year program, or a 5-year Integrated Program.
M.E. or M. Tech
with specialization in I.T., Computer Science & Engineering, Data Science, Electronics & Communication Engineering etc.
MBA or PGDM
with specialization in Information Systems / Business Analytics / Data Science / Information Technology / Networking Management etc.
MCA
Colleges permitted under the programme:
Student from any UGC/AICTE approved institute will be eligible for applying to the programme. However, preference will be given to the institutes given below:
M.E. or M. Tech or MCA - Colleges/Universities having a rank between 1-60 in the NIRF rankings for ‘
Engineering
’.
MBA or PGDM - Colleges/Universities having a rank between 1-60 in the NIRF rankings for ‘
Management
’.
The NIRF rankings as periodically revised by the Ministry of Education will be immediately applicable to the programme
Engagement Period:
The period of engagement will be for a maximum of 12 months.
Stipend
: A fixed stipend @ Rs.25,000/- p.m. will be paid to the selected students as financial assistance.
Benefits to Students:
Students will get a chance to work on Emerging Technologies and on Themes and Use Cases in Banking Industry. It will help them to ideate/ invent/ develop products and services. The students will get opportunity to work on practical / live projects in Banking Technology.
Location
: Students will work at various IT departments of State Bank Global IT Centre and Corporate Centre offices stationed at Mumbai / Navi Mumbai. The location would be decided by the Bank depending on requirement of the project.
Application Submission Deadline:
Applications can be submitted by the students throughout the year as per the academic calendar of the institutes and the requirements of the individual courses.
Please download the application form from the link given below and send the duly filled application form along with your updated resume to
studentengagement@sbi.co.in
Download Application Form
Terms & Conditions
Selection will be done by a panel of the Bank and will be final. An interview may also be conducted for selection. No charges will be paid to the student for attending the interview.
Selected students have to submit Annexure-I and Annexure-II, duly forwarded by the Head of the Institution, within a time period stated by the Bank, failing which the selection will be deemed as cancelled. The Annexure –I and II will be sent to the students upon their selection through email.
Project students shall sign a non-disclosure agreement stating that they shall not disclose to outsiders or use any information that they may come across in the Bank during the course of their project work. They should also undertake to indemnify the Bank for any loss suffered by the Bank as a result of any action taken by the student during the course of his/her project work
Bank anonymity should be maintained while submitting the project report to their parent institutions.
A copy of the project final report to be submitted to the Bank with the institute’s certificate.
The project report technical coverage and depth, meeting the requirements of course completion, shall be the responsibility of the student’s internal guide of the parent institution.
The project artifacts are the property of the Bank. Bank will have right to obtain Patent or IPR from the output of the project.
Student has to handover any materials/ books taken from the Bank and obtain no dues certificate from the Bank before leaving the project. The institute may insist upon the student to produce no dues certificate from the Bank for completion of his course.
1. Will employment be provided in the Bank after successful project completion?
No.
2. What will be the no of working days in a month?
The number of working days will be as per Bank’s working days. The same applies for holidays too. Any leaves to be taken must be approved by Competent Authority of the Bank. However, the student may be permitted leaves as required for attending mandatory examinations / seminars as required by his/her college / university calendar
3. Will accommodation be provided by the Bank?
No. The candidate is expected to arrange his own accommodation.
4. Will extra allowance be paid for accommodation?
No. The stipend is fixed at Rs.25, 000/- per month.
5. How Student Engagement Program is different from Summer Internship?
The Summer Internship program is normally for a duration of maximum 10 weeks, whereas SBI Student Engagement Program is up to One year for the final year students for completion of their course work and is also required for Bank to take the projects into a logical conclusion.
Download Application Form
Last Updated On : Tuesday, 02-12-2025