FAQ on E-Mandate on Debit Cards
1) What is SiHub E-Mandate solution?
SiHub E-Mandate solution enables a Debit Cardholder to provide e-Mandate on his/her Debit Card for regular/recurring payment transactions. As per the mandate provided to Bank, post validation through Additional Factor Authentication, recurring transaction will be carried out on the due date. Pre-Debit Notification, 24 hours prior to actual debit, will be sent to the customer. This will enable a cardholder, if needed, to cancel the transaction before actual debit.
2) Where can the service be availed?
At the time of payment to Online Merchants, who have already subscribed/onboarded to SiHub solution, the page will refer for making E-Mandate.
3) What are the details to be furnished by the customer to avail E-Mandate service?
Customer has to input the debit card details and other details called for in the site. Post submission, will get OTP in the Registered Mobile Number which is to be input in the site for validation purposes.
4) Whether any message will be received after creation of E-Mandate?
Yes. Customer will get SMS in his RMN as furnished below:
5) Can a customer view the e-mandate created on his card?
Yes. Customer can access Pre Login page of Bank’s Internet Banking site -
https://www.onlinesbi.sbi
furnish card number, enter received OTP and view the details. Customer can also select a mandate and modify/cancel any e-mandate. Alternately, any customer can access URL
https://www.sihub.in/managesi/sbi
,.
6) Will the customer get any alert about the transaction mandated before actual debit?
Yes. Customer will get alert SMS on RMN on the mandate transaction, at least 24 hours before the actual debit date. Sample alert SMS:
Dear Customer, Your ABC Merchant e-mandate (SI0000000001) payment for Rs. 000.00 is due on 00/00/0000 and will be processed through SBI Debit Card ending xxxx.
7) Can a Debit Cardholder modify/cancel the mandate given?
Yes. Cardholder can access portal https://www.sihub.in/manage/sbi and carry out modify or cancel e-mandate of his/her choice.
8) What is the fee charged to the Cardholder?
NIL. E-Mandate facility is provided Free of Cost to the Customer.
9) Customer support related information
Please share all the query to the undernoted email ID
(i) sihubsupport@billdesk.com
Last Updated On : Saturday, 02-03-2024