Most State Government Receipts (Taxes/Fees/Penalties, etc.) are paid through SBI Branches or through Internet Banking facility of the Bank (
www.onlinesbi.sbi
).Taxes are being received by SBI depending on the preparedness of the State Government.
Online Payment of Taxes
Customers who want to pay through INB, have account with SBI have to register as User on onlinesbi.sbi platform and should have the User Id and Password. For opening of Account and availing Online (INB) facility, Tax Payers may visit any of our 22000+ Branches.
Login in www.onlinesbi.sbi or the concerned State Government Portal e.g. for payment of Madhya Pradesh State Government Taxes- Login to M P Treasury Web Site (
www.mptreasury.org/
).
Tax Payers can also pay the Taxes through State Bank ATM-cum-Debit Card and Debit/Credit Card of other Banks, wherever this facility has been enabled.
Select the Government Department from the drop down.
Fill-in the online Challan with details against specified Heads and select Bank Name from drop down menu.
Select Head of Accounts from the drop down.
Verify details of Challan before submitting for payment.
Link will go to the Bank site for payment.
Authorize payment by using User-ID and Transaction Password of Internet Banking.
After putting User id & Password the next screen will appear for filling the transaction amount.
After putting transaction amount next screen will appear for confirmation that the transaction is correct.
On completion of the transaction, system gives Acknowledgement for On Line Tax Payment in the prescribed format.
Watch for successful transaction message and Ref. No.
Now the transaction is complete. Please print this acknowledgement and kept it to show the challans to the concerned department.
On completion of the transaction, customer can search his transaction by using
Challan Identification Number (CIN) on login on Govt. website naming by clicking the challans search button.
Physical Payment through Cheques and Cash
Customers can visit designated Authorized Branches for payment using Cash/Cheques etc.
Last Updated On : Tuesday, 02-12-2025