I. About SBI Nation First Transit Card
State Bank of India - Nation First Transit Card, is a contactless dual interface (EMV chip based) prepaid card with stored value functionality, for providing a safe, secure and seamless way of payment. Apart from a simple way to pay fares in the National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) enabled multiple modes in transit like Metro Rails, Buses etc. This card offers extended usage for retail payments as well as e-Commerce*. The card has separate compartments for storing amount for different utilities, the amount stored at card’s chip which is transit balance (global/offline balance) will be used for transit (travel) which is a unique feature of this Nation First Transit Card, while amount stored at card’s host (Retail Balance/online balance) can be used for utilities such as retail transactions, ATM cash withdrawals* etc.
*based on the facility as and when available by the bank with respect to the KYC status of the card
II. BENEFITS:
Nation First Transit Card offers many exciting features and a host of benefits for all your payment needs
Cashless travels in Metros, Buses, ferry, etc.
Purchase tickets and store passes for your Metro travel needs.
Purchase tickets for the buses using the same card.
Chip-protection to ensure better security for your card.
Easy to use Tap-and-Pay functionality.
To convert your Nation First Transit Card minimum details to Full KYC,
please visit the designated branches
:
III. TOP-UP/RECHARGE
Minimum Top-up Amount
Rs. 100/- (Multiples of Rs. 100/- thereafter). Top-Up can be done at any metro station or bus services equipped with NCMC enabled infrastructure* or at Customer portal
https://oneview.prepaid.sbi
Maximum Top-up and Total Chip Balance Limit
Rs. 2000/-
Usage
Currently Nation First Transit Card is usable only for transit purpose
Availability
Card issuance counters, Metro stations and Specified SBI branches.
IV. FEES AND CHARGES
Applicable charges for Nation First Transit Card would be as mentioned below:
Card Issuance Fee
NIL
Annual Maintenance Charges
NIL
Reload and top-up fee
NIL
V. FAQs
Q. What is SBI Nation First Transit Card?
Ans.
This is a State Bank of India Prepaid card, having a contactless dual interface (EMV chip), with stored value functionality for making Tap-and-Go payments at any NCMC enabled Metro Station, Bus terminal, ferry, etc.
Q. How can I get Nation First Transit Card?
Ans.
To get Nation First Transit Card you just have to follow the below mentioned simple steps:
Visit your nearest card issuance counters, metro stations or Specified SBI branches and request for the Nation First Transit Card at the counter.
Fill your details in the simple Application Form and submit it to the operator.
After entering the details by the operator, One Time Pin (OTP) will be generated and sent to your mobile number provided in the application.
After OTP validation, pay the top-up amount to load balance on the card for usage.
Click on the link for list of designated SBI Branches for issuance of Nation First Transit card
Q. What are the documents required for getting the card issued?
Ans.
For getting the card issued, you are required to visit your nearest card issuance counters, metro stations or Specified SBI branches with self-declaration of one of the following OVD (Officially Valid Document) Number:
Passport Number
Voter ID Number
Driving License Number
NREGA Job-card Number
Letter issued by the National Population Register, containing details of Name, Address, or Any other document as notified by the Central Government in consultation with the Regulator
Proof of possession of Aadhaar number
Q. How can I use my Nation First Transit Card at Metro Stations?
Ans.
Nation First Transit Card has a unique feature of Stored Value balance which can be used across NCMC enabled metro stations. Transactions in off-line mode are executed from the Stored Value balance in the card. Step-by-step procedure to be followed for using Nation First Transit Card for Metro rides is as under:
Visit your nearest Metro stations. Tap the card at the Entry Gate and as the gate opens, proceed to the platform for boarding the metro.
After completing the journey, tap the card again at the Exit Gate of destination station.
The fare amount for the journey undertaken will be debited from the stored value balance on the card.
Also, passes can be loaded on the specified service area onto the card, as per the business rule of the Metro authorities and can be used for metro rides as above. While travelling by using a pass, the fare amount for the journey will not be deducted as long as the pass is valid, as the value of pass shall be recovered upfront.
Q. How can I use my Nation First Transit Card at Bus terminals?
Ans.
Nation First Transit Card has a unique feature of Stored Value balance which can be used across NCMC enabled bus terminals. Transactions in off-line mode are executed from the Stored Value balance in the card. Step-by-step procedure to be followed for using Nation First Transit Card for Bus rides is as under:
Visit your nearest Bus terminal. Tap the card on the conductor’s device for validation of ticket and proceed for boarding the Bus.
The fare amount for the journey undertaken will be debited from the stored value balance on the card.
Also, passes can be loaded on the specified service area onto the card, as per the business rule of the Bus authorities and can be used for Bus rides as above. While travelling by using a pass, the fare amount for the journey will not be deducted as long as the pass is valid, as the value of pass shall be recovered upfront.
Q. How do I check the balance available on my Nation First Transit Card?
Ans.
Visit your nearest Card issuance counters, Metro stations, Specified SBI branches and Customer Portal at
https://oneview.prepaid.sbi
and tap your Nation First Transit Card on the Ticket Readers (TRs)/Enquiry Machine (ENQ) installed at metro stations, Pos terminal of Specified branches, Bus terminal conductor’s device. Where customer can check information regarding the card balance will be displayed on the screen.
Q. How can I top-up my card? What is the Maximum and Minimum limit for topping up of card?
Ans.
At Card issuance counters, Metro stations or Specified SBI branches:
You can top-up/recharge your card by paying in cash or by using debit/credit card at any of the Card issuance counters, Metro stations or Specified SBI branches.
Through Online Channel:
You can also top-up/money load your card online by visiting the customer portal at
https://oneview.prepaid.sbi
After successful top-up/money load the customer needs to do a Balance Update operation at any of the Card issuance counters, Metro stations or Specified SBI branches.
Minimum Top-up Amount is Rs. 100/- and Maximum Limit Rs. 2000/-
Q. What is threshold limit for Global (chip/offline) Balance on the card?
Ans.
The threshold limit for Global Balance on the card is a maximum of ₹2000 (Rupees Two Thousand Only).
Q. What should I do if my card is Stolen, Lost or Damaged?
Ans.
If your card is lost, stolen or damaged, please follow the below mentioned steps:
Customers can block the card on Customer portal i.e.
https://oneview.prepaid.sbi
wherein customer can login using his/her credentials.
Report the information immediately at Card issuance counters, Metro Station/Customer Portal or SBI Contact Centre 1800-8899 (toll free) or landline number 080-26599990 (toll) 24x7 and report the loss of card. The contact center executive will ask for identification details, e.g. Card Number, Mobile Number, date of birth, etc. On receipt of the information, your card will be blocked to ensure that it is not being used fraudulently by any unauthorized person. A ticket number will be sent to your registered mobile number after blocking the card.
Visit your nearest Card issuance counters, Metro stations or Specified SBI branches for Card Replacement and submit a simple request letter for the same. After ensuring that your previous card has been blocked, a fresh replacement card will be issued to you.
In case of card not present scenario during replacement, global balance (offline/stores value balance) will not be transferred to the new card.
Q. Where should I contact in case of any issues or grievances related to my Nation First Transit Card?
Ans.
You may call 24x7 Customer Care on 1800-1234 (toll-free) or 080-26599990 (toll) in case of any grievances related to Nation First Transit Card. Alternatively, you can also email at
contactcentre@sbi.co.in
Last Updated On : Thursday, 10-07-2025