Applicability:
The scheme is applicable to students of all top level/good UGC/AICTE approved private and government institutes. Stipend and non-stipend category depend upon the list of institutes identified by the concerned circles as circles are authorized to identify the institute under stipend category.
Selection Process:
The students have to be selected on the basis of personal interview and group discussions, if necessary. The selection process is handled by Learning & Development (L&D) department at circles and HR/Admin departments at CC/CC establishments
Contact List (AGM-L&Ds)
Circle
E-mail
State Covered
Ahmedabad
AGMLD.LHOAHM@SBI.CO.IN
Gujarat, Dadra & Nager Haveli, Daman & Diu
Amaravati
AGMLD.LHOAND@SBI.CO.IN
Andhra Pradesh
Bengaluru
AGMLD.LHOBAN@SBI.CO.IN
Karnataka
Bhopal
LND.LHOBHO1@SBI.CO.IN
Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh
Bhubaneshwar
AGMLD.LHOBHU@SBI.CO.IN
Odisha
Chandigarh
AGMLD.LHOCHA@SBI.CO.IN
Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab
Chennai
CMLND.LHOCHE@SBI.CO.IN
Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry
Delhi
AGMLD.LHODEL@SBI.CO.IN
Delhi, Uttarkhand, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh
Jaipur
AGMLD.LHOJAI@SBI.CO.IN
Rajasthan
Kolkata
AGMLND.LHOKOL@SBI.CO.IN
West Bengal, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Sikkim
Lucknow
AGMLND.LHOLUC@SBI.CO.IN
Uttar Pradesh
Maharashtra
AGMLND.LHOMAH@SBI.CO.IN
Maharashtra and Goa
Guwahati
AGMLND.LHOGUW@SBI.CO.IN
Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura
Patna
AGMLD.LHOPAT@SBI.CO.IN
Bihar and Jharkhand
Hyderabad
AGMLND.LHOHYD@SBI.CO.IN
Telengana
Thiruvananthapuram
AGMLD.LHOTRI@SBI.CO.IN
Kerala and Lakshadweep
Mumbai Metro
AGMLND.LHOMUM@SBI.CO.IN
Maharashtra
Documents:
The L&D Department will be responsible for assigning project to the interns, collection of KYC documents, recommendation letter from the Institute, and candidate due diligence, and providing certificate, signed by the Bank’s official, to the interns on completion of the project.
1.	Who are eligible for internship under the scheme?
The students pursuing any full-time course from a UGC/AICTE approved institute, whose course curriculum requires completion of internship from an external institution, are eligible to apply under the scheme. The students can be selected from the campus by the Bank, or they can apply/approach directly to the Bank. The Bank reserves the right to reject any application without specifying any reason.
2.	How can a student directly apply for internship under the scheme?
The nodal office for selection of interns at circles is L&D department. The students can approach the L&D department at the LHO with application for summer internship. The applications received at any other offices/branches in the circle have to be forwarded to L&D department, LHO for consideration. In Corporate Centre / Corporate Centre establishments, the HR/Admin heads of the concerned departments have to process the applications received directly by them.
3.	What are the documents required to be submitted by the student?
The student needs to submit an application for internship along with her/his resume, letter from the institute regarding requirement of internship and KYC documents, etc.
4.	Can a student apply for internship from a place other than the place where her/his institute is located?
Yes. The student can apply for internship from her/his place of residence, which may be separate from the place of her/his Institute. The selection of students under stipend category can be made from the list of institutes approved by the circle where the student’s institute is located.
5.	What is the process of selection of student for internship?
The students have to be selected on the basis of personal interview and group discussions, if necessary. The selection process is handled by L&D department at circles and HR/Admin departments at CC/CC establishments.
6.	Whether the Bank reimburses any boarding / lodging / travel costs of the interns during the internship?
No. The Bank will pay only the stipend for the interns selected under stipend category, after completion of the project and submission of project report. Any costs incurred by the interns during the internship has to be borne by them including arrangements for their stay and travel etc.
7.	Does the Bank offer placement to the summer interns post completion of internship?
No. No placement is offered post completion of internship. The summer interns are also not given any weightage in the Bank’s regular recruitment process for different positions in the Bank.
8.	Can the students select a project of their choice for summer internship?
No. The projects are to be allotted by the Bank as per the Bank’s requirement.
9.	Is any acknowledged copy of the project report provided by the Bank to the intern, for submission to her/his institute?
No. The Project Report submitted by the intern shall be Bank’s property. The Bank will only provide a certificate of internship to the student, for submission to her/his institute.