About Us
State Bank Institute of Innovation & Technology (SBIIT), established in 1987 in the historic city of Hyderabad, is SBI’s premier 'Technology & Digital' Apex Training Institute (ATI). Accredited with ISO 21001:2018, SBIIT is dedicated to IT-focused training, research and development, innovation, and e-Learning. As one of the first institutes of its kind in South-East Asia and a pioneering institution in India's banking sector, SBIIT has played a vital role in transforming SBI from a traditional bank into a digital bank.
SBIIT delivers innovative training programs that empower employees to excel and contribute to the organization's strategic growth. Committed to fostering a culture of excellence and continuous learning, SBIIT leverages the latest technologies and industry best practices to equip employees with the skills needed to meet the evolving demands of the banking industry. Our programs enhance the skills, knowledge, and leadership capabilities of the workforce, ensuring they remain at the forefront of banking excellence and customer service.
The institute provides specialized training for SBI officials across a wide range of banking roles, conducts banking technology research, and extends training services to personnel from other Banks and Financial Institutions.
By choosing us, you will get:
·
Trusted Leadership
: Learn from a banking institution with a legacy of excellence.
·
Personalized Training
: Receive goal-specific education tailored to your needs.
·
Innovative Learning
: Engage with cutting-edge technology and real-world applications.
·
Holistic Development
: Become a well-rounded, future-ready professional.
·
Expert Mentorship
: Benefit from seasoned banking professionals' insights.
·
Digital Empowerment
: Gain hands-on skills in FinTech, data analytics, cybersecurity, and many more.
Shri
Ranjan Kumar Nayak
(Director, SBIIT)
Shri Ranjan Kumar Nayak joined the bank as a Probationary Officer in 1991, bringing with him vast experience spanning over 33 years. He is a career banker with diverse experience in handling Operations, IT, Training, Bancassurance and International Banking. He holds a Post Graduate degree in Science and has completed CAIIB. Additionally, he is a certified CISA Professional and holds ACAMS certification. He has also completed Moody’s ISO certification.
He effectively headed Audit and Compliance & Risk division for the MEWANA (Middle East, West Asia, and North Africa) Region of the Banks' International Banking vertical.
Prior to taking over as General Manager and Director, SBIIT, Shri Nayak completed two assignments heading the two most important Modules in Patna Circle as Deputy General Manager (Banking and Operations), spanning over 13 Regional Business Offices having more than 5000 employees’ strength.
Management Team - The Director, SBIIT is supported by a Management Team comprising of DGMs :
Shri Ram Chandra Panigrahi, Deputy General Manager (Systems)
Ram Chandra Panigrahi, a science graduate with MCA, has also successfully completed many Banking Certifications including PMP certification, joined SBM in 2002 as a specialist officer. He has worked in various capacities at IT services department at Bangalore, as VP-IT at SBICAP Securities Ltd, Mumbai and also in GITC, Navi Mumbai. Before joining the bank he has worked in several reputed private sector companies in various roles for 10 years. His previous assignment was as DGM IT Operations & Settlement at GITC, Belapur, Mumbai.
Smt. K.P. Shobha Rani - Dy. General Manager (R&A)
Smt. K.P.Shobha Rani, a post graduate with MBA(HR) & B.Sc (Ag),  MA(PPM)  was Trainee Officer of batch 1999. During her career of 36 years in the Bank, has handled various assignments including General Manager of RRB, Foreign Exchange, Digital Banking in FIMM & headed various branches upto scale V.
Smt . K.P.Shobha Rani is posted as Dy. General Manager (R&A) at SBIIT Hyderabad since 25th June 2024.
Faculty
Shri Hemant Kumar Anand, CM (Faculty)
Shri Hemant Kumar Anand joined Bank in April 2002 as Probationary Officer. He is MBA Finance from NMIMS, Mumbai and did his graduation in Mathematics & Statistics from DAV College Dehradun. He is a PG Diploma holder in “Tourism and Travel Management” from IITTM, Gwalior. He has also completed both parts of CAIIB along with “PG Diploma in Financial Advising” and Certifications in “SME Finance”, “Digital Banking” and “KYC/AML” from IIBF Mumbai. He is having 23 Years of experience in various verticals of the Bank like HLST, Branch Banking, SME Advances, CMP & RACPC. He was BM of SME Branch Nagpur and Retail Banking Branches of MIDC Andheri (E) and Andheri (E).  His area of interest includes Cash Management Products (CMP), KYC, Digital Banking, Emerging technologies in the Banking Sector, Credit Management etc.
Shri Sandeep Kumar, CM (Faculty)
Shri Sandeep Kumar joined the Bank as Probationary officer 2008 batch at erstwhile Mumbai circle. He is a B.E. (Computer Science & Engineering) and MBA (Finance & Accounts). He has completed CAIIB and is also an alumnus of SPJIMR, Mumbai, having successfully completed the PGEPF programme - i.e. Post Graduate Executive Programme in Fintech, AI/ML, Data Science & Blockchain.
He has more than 16 years of experience covering Retail Branch Banking Operations, Retail Assets & NPA Management. He has served as Field Officer at branches, Manager (NPAM) at RBO-5 (Varanasi), CM (Credit & NPA) at RBO Fort Mumbai, CM(NPAM) at LHO Mumbai Metro and was branch head at Mahul Road (Mumbai) currency chest branch. Before joining SBIIT Hyderabad, he has served as Chief Manager at SBI Deonar (Mumbai) branch. He has total more than four years of experience as Branch Manager in incumbency of Scale II, III and IV.
He is an avid learner with interest in varied topics ranging from computer science, AI/ML, new technologies, linguistics, mathematics, geography etc.
Shri Umakanth CVS, CM (Faculty)
Mr Umakanth CVS
is a Post Graduate in Commerce and Certified Cost Accountant. He has 23 years of experience in various domains of Information Technology departments of State Bank of India, specifically in IT Designing, Development and Project Management. Being
C
ertified
I
nformation
S
ecurity
A
uditor he had versatile experience in the area of IS & Cyber Security associated with BSFI. His passion towards dissemination of knowledge made him opt for trainer’s roleand presently handling sessions on IT & Digital products related to banking domain at
S
tate
B
ank
I
nstitute of
I
nnovation and
T
echnology, Hyderabad (The APEX IT Training and Innovation center of SBI).He deals with various activitiesrelated to IS & Cyber Security like content development, handling ofsessions and corporate training to National & International banks.
Shri Sushil Porwal- CM (Faculty)
Shri Sushil Porwal joined SBI in 2007 as a Probationary office (PO). He holds a Master Degree in Management (MBA) with dual specialisation in Marketing and Systems. He has completed CAIIB & possesses various certificates from IIBF like SME finance for bankers, Certificate course in Trade Finance etc. He has over 15 years of experience in Banking industry including 9 years as a Branch Manager. His areas of interest are Digital Marketing, Digital Apps etc.
Shri Ramakrishna Guttula CM (Faculty)
Shri Ramakrishna Guttula joined the Bank as Deputy Manager (Systems) in the year 2013.
He is a postgraduate in Electronics from Andhra University. He has completed   Certifications in JAIIB, CAIIB, IT Security, Prevention of Cybercrime & Fraud Management and Information System Banker.
He previously worked as System Administrator at LHO Jaipur for 6 years. Got transferred to Hyderabad circle and worked as IT Support officer at Administrative Office, Nizamabad for 3 years.
Ms. Meenakshi Jain AGM (Faculty)
Ms. Meenakshi Jain AGM (Faculty) is a BTech & MBA. She has vast experience in ATM operations & IT  Support .She has successfully discharged her responsibility of establishing ATM vertical at Jaipur Circle as CM Local Command Center. She has also successfully discharged her duties as CM/AGM Systems at Administrative Office Jaipur/Jodhpur. She is drawn towards sharing the knowledge .That passion made her to opt for position of faculty
Shri Vipin Kumar, CM (Faculty)
Shri Vipin Kumar joined State Bank of India in the year 2010 as Management Executive. He is Post Graduate in Business Administration with specialization in Operations Management from SIBM, Pune. He is a CAIIB certified professional. He has over 12 years of banking experience and has worked in the capacity of Field Officer, Manager (NPA) and Branch Manager in Lucknow and Maharashtra Circle. He believes that learning is a continuous process. His areas of interest include Digital Banking and reading about New Technologies.
Shri S Satish Kumar AGM (Faculty)
Sri S Satish Kumar, AGM ( Faculty ), joined Bank in the year 1995 in Chennai Circle. He holds Post Graduate degree in Criminology. He has completed CAIIB and IIBF Certificate course on Digital Banking.
During his 19 years as officer, he worked in various capacities handling PER/SME/AGRI branches. He worked as CM Compliance of RBO-2 Salem.  His line of interest is in digital products particularly SB Collect / Site Integration.
Prior to joining SBIIT, he was AGM of Thanjavur main branch. His hobbies / interest includes playing badminton, Table Tennis, Cricket and Music.
Shri Shaji Neelakandan AGM (Faculty)
Shri Shaji Neelakandan joined as a Probationary Officer in 1995. He is a BTech from College of Engineering Trivandrum. Before joining SBIIT in October 2022, he held various assignments include Regional Manager, AGM(D&TB) and AGM(Branch Head) of Kannur Branch. He commenced the RM-FI Desk at Dubai Regional Head Office. He headed two other branches and held positions as Project Officer for branch computerisation and Credit analyst.
Hobbies include Badminton and Reading.
Shri Deepak Kumar Shukla, AGM (Faculty)
Shri Deepak Kumar Shukla has joined SBI in 1997 and is having vast experience of operations and has mostly served in the branches. His are of interest is Digital Banking and new technological innovation in Banking sector.
Prior to joining SBIIT he was AGM SME civil lines branch at Prayagraj, AGM SME AO Prayagraj. He has worked in Chandigarh Circle, and Lucknow circle before joining at SBIIT Hyderabad.
Shri B ARUN CHOUTHRI, CM (Faculty)
Shri B ARUN CHOUTHRI joined SBI as a Probationary Officer in 2009.  He has a B. Tech degree with specialization in Electronics & Communications.
He has over 7 years of experience as a Branch Head, 3 years in credit, 2 years in digital banking.  He has headed 4 different branches in scale II, III and IV incumbency.
Prior to joining SBI as a Probationary Officer, he worked as a Software Developer for 4 years.
His area of interest includes Digital Banking, CRM, New technologies in the banking sector, Cyber Security, etc...
Shri Majji T Tulasi Prasad , CM (Faculty)
Shri Majji T Tulasi Prasad Joined the Bank as Probationary Officer in 2003. He holds a Post Graduate in M Sc(Physics) from Andhra University along with Post Graduate Diploma In Computer Sciences from Central University, Hyderabad. He has also Completed CAIIB along with Certification in "SME finance for Bankers"  from IIBF.  He also received of Participations in " Advanced MSME Credit Analysis" from CRISIL along with Certification’s in " Management Development Programme " from Asian School of Business , CICC (Certification in Commercial Credit) from Moody’s Analytics. He is having around  21 years of Banking experience of which 16 years in Banking Operations in various capacities as Branch Manager, Filed Officer and Chief Manager (Cr&NPA). He also successfully Completed 3 years overseas assignment as a Branch head in MUSCAT, OMAN on deputation to GMEC (Global Money Exchange Co LLC) -OMAN managed by State Bank of India. Prior to Joining with SBIIT he worked a Chief Manager ( Credit & NPA ) for 5 years in North Goa and South Goa regions of AO Panaji Module. His area of interest includes Credit Management, Digital Banking, Emerging technologies in the banking sector, IS and Cyber Security, etc..
Shri S V N Murty, AGM (Faculty)
Shri S V N Murty joined the Bank as a Dy Manager (Networking) in 2002.  He is a post- graduate in Computer Applications.
He has 22 years of experience in various domains of Information Technology departments of State Bank of India.
He has completed Certifications in CAIIB, IT Security, Prevention of Cyber Crime & Fraud Management, Certified Info System Banker (CeISB) and ITIL FOUNDATION LEVEL.
Shri Rajiv Ranjan, CM (Faculty)
Rajiv Ranjan joined bank as a probationary officer in 2001. He has  vast experience in the field of General Banking ,Agri,  SME and C&I advances. He worked in various states like Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Utter Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Maharashtra. During his stay at Mumbai his one of the branches was recognised for various pilot project  of bank like
Project Lotus, Revamping of counters, Modification in current account and saving account form, CEEP
and Analysis on time required to execute single transaction on different desk. As a CM (C&I) at BKC he got vast exposure in implementation of various digital solutions available at SBI. He addressed many corporates of Mumbai  on Digital Solutions available in SBI, Cyber attack and Contemporary Banking.
Research Officers
Sh. Harsh Mohanlal Sankhala, Chief Manager (Research)
Harsh Sankhala joined the Bank in the year 2013. He has over 10 years of experience in the Banking Industry.
He did his Masters in Management Studies (Finance) and is an Engineering Graduate (BE Mechanical). He has also completed CAIIB. In his 10 years of service in the Bank, he has headed three branches and worked in credit and operations.
He is at present in the Research Wing of SBIIT.
Ms. Shubha Bisotra, Manager (Research)
Shubha Bisotra joined the Bank in the year 2010. She has over 14 years of experience in the Banking Industry.
Shubha is a Graduate in Psychology and also holds a Masters degree in Management Studies (Marketing & HR). She has experience in branch operations and International Banking.
She is at present in the Research Wing of SBIIT.
At SBIIT, we recognize that effective teaching requires diverse methods to facilitate meaningful learning. Our training fosters an environment where participants actively engage, explore, and apply new knowledge.
We employ strategies tailored to learners' needs, including student-centred learning, technology integration, formative assessment, collaborative learning, reflective practice, professional development, and culturally responsive teaching.
By leveraging innovative pedagogical approaches, SBIIT delivers impactful learning experiences for banking professionals. Our programs align with the evolving needs of the modern banking industry, empowering participants with the essential skills and insights for professional excellence.
CLASSROOM PROGRAMS OFFERINGS
Digital Banking Program for Senior Banking Officials.
Digital Banking Program for Branch Managers.
Digital Banking Program for Banking Officials.
Digital Banking Program on Cyber Security Awareness for all
Digital Banking Program on IT and Cyber Security and Emerging Trends in BFSI.
Digital Banking Program on Office 365 Apps for Credit Officers.
Digital Banking Program on Office 365 Applications.
Program on Oracle 19c Database Administration and PL/SQL.
Program on Project Management for officials working in IT Domain
WEBINAR OFFERINGS
Current Trends in Digital Banking: Artificial Intelligence, Big Data, Blockchain, IoT, Metaverse)
IT & Cyber Security Awareness
FinTech Fundamentals: Navigating the Future of Finance
Data Governance Essentials: Protecting and Leveraging Your Data
Leveraging Data Analytics in Digital Banking
Understanding API Banking
Understanding Microsoft MS Office 365 (SharePoint / MS Teams/Delve/PowerPoint/Excel)
MS Office 365: Advanced Excel
Our Specialization:  Tailor made (System Related) Programs for various Banking, Financial Institutions and Govt. authorities.
Nomination
Please send attached nomination form through mail to
jdtr.sbiit@sbi.co.in
with all details
(Nomination Form)
Modes of Payment
Through NEFT / RTGS to our account:
Beneficiary Name : SBIIT Drawing and Collection A/c
Account No. : 39223897724
Bank / Branch : SBI, PBB Banjara Hills
IFSC Code: SBIN0008022
(Please note UTR No. for nomination form)
Contact Us
For Training related information
Email :
jdtr.sbiit@sbi.co.in
Contact No :
91 40 23388233 / 23388235
For Payment related queries :
Email :
sbiit@sbi.co.in / jdtr.sbiit@sbi.co.in
Contact No :
+91 40 23388252 / 23388233
Location Map
State Bank Institute of Innovation & Technology
‘Bank Sanchar Bhavan’, 8-2-695,
Road No.12, Banjara Hills,
Hyderabad – 500 034
Email :
sbiit@sbi.co.in
Contact No. :
+91 40 23388203
Google Map :
View Map
Infrastructure
Participant’s Voice
"Learnt about the use of Machine Learning in Predictive analysis in operations, analytics, natural language processing and customer handling applications."
"Content of Program on Virtualization and Cloud Computing designed exquisitely which covered all the important knowledge areas. Experienced, Knowledgeable and well-versed Faculty."
"Very well-designed program on AGILE/SCRUM/DEVOPS and executed in a very efficient way. Trainer made sure the sessions are interesting and strategically engaged all participants in activities."
"A fast, flexible and an excellent result-oriented Learning Program on IS & CYBER SECURITY with an impact on Bank’s Business Performance."
"Program for DIGITAL BANKING covered lots of new trends in Digital Banking and excellent faculty."