YONO Cash is a cardless cash withdrawal and deposit feature available in YONO app.
This feature allows customers to withdraw money instantly from SBI ATMs, SBIs Merchant POS terminals and SBI Customer Service Points (CSPs) within India without using any physical card or withdrawal slip.
Customer can also do cardless cash deposit at SBI cash deposit machines using this feature.
The YONO user simply needs to login to the YONO platform and use the YONO Cash feature to raise a cash withdrawal or deposit request.
Post successful generation of YONO cash request, the user can withdraw/obtain the cash from any of the channels i.e., ATM, POS terminal or CSP using the 6-digit reference No. and PIN set at the time of request generation.
In case of cash deposit at CDMs only the 6-digit reference No. is required.
Features
YONO Cash: Convenience, Security, and Sustainability
Convenient Access to Cash
: It enables customers to withdraw cash from ATMs, POS or CSPs even if they forget their wallets at home and only carrying their phone. The YONO Cash transactions are free of cost and are counted over and above the regular cash withdrawal through ATMs.
Environment friendly
: Total elimination of plastic cards
Enhanced Security
: Eliminates most of the risks associated with physical cards like no risk of shoulder surfing, no card trapping, no card skimming risk, no risk of lost card/pin. The PIN is generated dynamically for every transaction.
Cardless Cash Deposits
: It enables customers to deposit cash to their self or existing SBI beneficiary account without any debit card. The customer can deposit the cash in the CDM using only the 6-digit reference no. (No entry of account details is required)
Transaction Limit
Transaction Type
Per Transaction Limit
Cumulative Limit (Per CIF Per 24 hrs)
No of Transactions (Per CIF Per 24 hrs)
YONO Cash - ATM
₹ 20000
₹ 20000 including all the variants of YONO Cash
2
YONO Cash @ POS
₹ 2000
2
YONO Cash @ CSP
₹ 10000
2
YONO Shopping
₹ 10000
2
YONO Cash - Deposit
₹ 49,900
As per limits set at CDM
2
Download YONO SBI
Last Updated On : Thursday, 19-06-2025