Open Savings account with Aadhaar and only one Branch Visit
Features
Open your Saving Bank Account with single branch visit
Need your Aadhaar for opening account
Experience 24*7 banking access through Yono app, Internet banking and Mobile banking.
Nomination facility is available.
Eligibility
Resident Indians above 18 years of age who are literate and able to sign uniformly.
Customer is new to SBI.
Aadhar bears the current address of the customer
PAN is optional. If PAN is not provided, the system generated Form 60 has to be signed by the customer and uploaded.
Mobile is mandatory and customer should possess it at the time of opening account.
Email address is optional.
How to apply?
Walk into nearest SBI branch with Aadhaar for eKYC
Provide Mobile No. and additional details like education qualification, profession, nomination etc
Sign the required documents and account is opened
Terms and Conditions
Any Resident Indian who is 18 years and above who provides his/her details in the Digital Savings Account application for opening SBI Digital Savings account offered by SBI is a Customer.
The customer herewith agrees to provide his/ her valid Aadhaar number and understands that opening an account is subject to complete and accurate information being provided.
Application once submitted cannot be withdrawn by the customer. Bank shall not be liable to pay for any costs (technical/ data plan related or otherwise) incurred by the customer in the course of sharing of his/her details on the application
Customer gives consent to the Bank to fetch his/her demographic details from Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), using biometric authentication which will be used for KYC purposes. The demographic details include name, DOB, Father’s Name, gender, address and photograph.
Customer authorises Bank to link the Tokenized Aadhaar number provide with the savings account opened by them under this process
The customer herewith agrees that if the application is rejected, Bank will retain the documents / Photographs and any other signed document submitted by the customer
Bank reserves the right to take necessary action, legal or otherwise, if it finds any wilful modification/ withholding of information or misrepresentation by the customer.
Customer declares and confirms that the Bank shall be entitled to rely on all/any communication, information and details provided on the electronic form and all such communications, information and details shall be final and legally binding on the Customer
The Customers are expected to provide PAN No. or Form 60 or any other document as may be prescribed by tax authorities from time to time for opening the Account.
Last Updated On : Tuesday, 25-01-2022